Fridays are for customers. Every Friday,
each one of us picks a task and tries to
ship it to make someone really happy.
Let's see what we got up to.
>> Hey everyone. So, currently we have this
annoying bug in the playground where I
can't scroll vertically in the prompt
preview and I can't see the scroll bar
either. Now, this has been fixed. So, in
the next release, uh, scrolling is going
to work again. Hey Vetre, you guys
mentioned you wanted to see fallback
error history uh in BAML errors and that
is now available. Um now if you print
out uh BAML client HP error or any of
the other errors validation error and so
on uh there will now be a detailed
message view detailed message field that
has the full history.
>> Hello Renee, thank you for the feedback
that our docs were out of date for our
clients. We've now updated every single
client so it has the latest examples of
every single model that's out there. So
whether it's Enthropic, the bedrock
models or anything else, you will be
able to see all the models easily from
now on with the latest examples. And for
anyone starting a new BAML project,
you'll also get the latest examples when
you do BAML CLI in it along with great
examples for Gemini Vert.ex anything
else. Thanks. Hey Baka xn not we have
now added versel AI gateway to our
documentation so you should be able to
use it with a bunch of models from the
versel endpoint. Elijah you also
reported there was an issue with BAML
with options and I've confirmed that in
the latest version of BAML we don't have
that issue anymore. So, I added a test
here that confirms that uh if you use
these be with options, the uh the
options inside of here still get
preserved. Finally, because I noticed
that you didn't know how to test PDFs in
the playground. So, I've gone ahead and
added that to the documentation.
So, if you search for PDF and click on
the first result, you'll be able to see
how to test PDFs in the playground. The
BAML parser is very forgiving. That's
what lets us guarantee that you're
always going to get back structured
data, no matter how creative the LLM
gets with its output formats. However,
there's some types of parsing errors
that we can't fix without breaking the
parser for more regularly shaped data.
And in those cases, we've written up a
little recipe for how you can deal with
those situations. The gist is like this.
You write a function that takes the
parse error and the original message and
just tells a new LLM to fix it up. That
way, the LLM doesn't have to think about
the semantics of its answer and the
formatting at the same time and is more
likely to create a well formatted
output.
We also have documentation for how to
use this pattern from your client code
and some advice for how to choose a
model for the reformatting.
Thanks to Vetre for noticing this issue
and for testing out our