Right now, I'm going to show you the
easiest possible way to supercharge your
AI agents, and it's all thanks to MCP
servers. You might have heard of them
before, but there is a new way to set
them up and connect them to your agents
super quickly. The workflow that you're
looking at right here, and I'll actually
show you this later in the video, took
me only 10 minutes to set up. I
connected my Claude desktop to YouTube,
Obsidian, Slack, and GitHub really,
really easily. And so, I have this whole
workflow here where it pulls a YouTube
transcript, it summarizes that in my
Obsidian vault, and then I have it read
my Slack conversation to get some extra
context, and then create a GitHub issue,
and then I even have it mention Claude
Code in the issue to kick off a Claude
Code agent to autonomously work on my
codebase based on the research that I
did here. So, end-to-end, we started
with research all the way to a complete
implementation in our codebase, and it
took me 10 minutes to set this up with
all of these MCP servers. Now, you might
be asking yourself, "Cole, isn't that
going to take a while to get everything
set up?" I mean, if you worked with MCP
before, you probably worked with this
kind of registry, like the main one that
we have in GitHub, where you find the
MCP servers that you want in this list,
but then you have to click into it, and
then you have to figure out the JSON
configuration to connect it, and then
you have to go and do that for the next
one and the next one. It actually is a
bit of a hassle to get all of these MCP
servers, all this functionality built
into our AI agents. But now, there is a
new tool that makes it 100 times easier
to find and connect MCP servers, and
that is the Docker MCP catalog. This is
what I want to show you today and all
the things that we can do with it. It is
a beautifully curated list of all of
these MCP servers, and with a single
click of a button, I can connect them
and then use them in my own agents. I
can connect very easily, again with a
click of a button, to Claude Code or
Claude Desktop. This is now my command
center to manage my MCP servers. Right
now, I'll show you how easy it is to get
this up and running, and then we'll play
around with some of these different
servers and build out some workflows.
So, in order to get access to this
lovely catalog of MCP servers, the only
thing you have to do is install a Docker
Desktop. And if you followed along with
any of my content in the past, you
probably already have it. I use Docker
already for pretty much every
application that I build, and so I
already have the platform up and running
24/7 with all of my different
containers, and so now I get to manage
my MCP servers in the exact same place.
It is a beautiful thing. So, cool. Let's
actually explore all the MCP servers
that we have here, and then I'll show
you how easy it is with a single click
of a button to connect these servers
into any of your external clients as
well once you have your server selected,
like Claude Code, Claude Desktop, Gemini
CLI. It'll actually update the
configuration for these tools for you,
so you don't even have to do anything
with JSON yourself like you have before
if you've used MCP. And so, yeah, going
back to the catalog, I have this sorted
by popularity right now. We've got Fetch
at the top with over 500,000 downloads
already, giving our agents the ability
to take a URL and extract the content
from it. We've got Slack. I'm going to
be using this one today. Playwright for
front-end testing, Context Seven for
RAG. We can hook our agents into our
database in one click. We can pull
YouTube transcripts. I'll also be using
that one today. It feels like whatever
functionality I need for my agent, I can
get it from this catalog. We got Notion,
we've got Brave, Firecrawl for scraping,
we've got Discord, Stripe, Chroma DB.
It's like everything is here. It's so
cool. So, let's actually install one of
these. I'm going to go to YouTube
transcripts.
Click into this, and then all I have to
do, one click, add MCP server, boom, we
have it now connected. The only other
thing you might need to do, depending on
your MCP, is set up configuration, but
it's also really convenient that we can
do all of this for things like API keys
right within the catalog as well. And
then we can also see all of the tools
that this MCP now gives to our agent
once we have it connected.
Also, keep in mind that when you are
working with the MCP toolkit, which is
in beta, you might need to go to your
Docker settings in the top here and go
to beta features and enable it. Now,
this wasn't enabled for me by default,
but I just want to call that out in case
you're missing that there, cuz then it's
not going to work when we go on to the
rest of the things here, actually
getting these MCP servers connected to
our agents. So, now with our first
server selected from the catalog, we can
now hook this in to any of our clients
in the click of a button. But there's
one other thing I actually want to show
you first that's really cool. Because
when you go to this client page for the
first time, none of these will be
connected except for this one right
here, Ask Gordon. It's actually set up
to be connected to our MCP toolkit by
default. Because Gordon is the AI agent
that is built directly into Docker
Desktop, also in beta just like the MCP
toolkit. And so, without even having to
connect any external client yet, we can
actually test our MCP servers directly
within Docker Desktop thanks to Gordon.
And so, for the tool that I have right
now, you just have to go to your
toolbox, MCP toolkit right here, and
then just make sure that you have the
toolkit enabled for Gordon. So, I have
my three tools right now for that
YouTube transcript MCP server. So, I'll
close out of this, and we need it to
transcribe a video. So, I'm just going
to go to one of the latest videos on my
channel where I covered Dockling, which
is a tool that helped with data
extraction and chunking for RAG. And so,
I'm just going to copy this URL at the
top, very simple, go back to Gordon
here, and I'm going to say, "Transcribe
this video and give me a very concise
summary." I just want something really
fast here just to show you how Gordon is
a place for us to quickly test our MCP
servers. And so, Gordon is going to make
that tool call. There we go, calling get
transcript, and it's a pretty quick
agent overall, so we should get the
summary in just a second here. There we
go, nice. The video introduces Dockling.
Didn't quite spell it right. I'll give
it a pass on that one. Free open-source
Python tool designed to simplify the
extraction and preparation of complex
data. Cool. This is perfect. So, as
we're adding these servers in our
catalog, we can use Gordon to quickly
test them.
But the real deal here is being able to
use these MCP servers in our existing
clients. You maybe are using Claude Code
or Cursor for your coding, or you're
just working with Claude Desktop to
brainstorm with an LLM. Let's give the
functionality to those guys. And so, all
we have to do is go to the clients tab,
and then single click of a button, just
as easy as selecting the servers in our
catalog. So, we'll start with Claude
Desktop here. All I have to do is click
connect, and boom, there we go. Now, the
next time we open up Claude Desktop, all
of the servers that we have here are
going to be immediately available in the
Claude Desktop. Now, for most MCP
clients, once we add more servers into
them, we have to restart them. So, I'll
do that for Claude Desktop here. I'll
just go in, right click, quit, and then
go and restart the application. Super,
super fast. Wait for it to load. And
then the way that we can verify our
connection here is by going to search
and tools, and then you're looking for
the MCP server called MCP_Docker,
very creatively named. And we can click
into this to see all the tools that it
exposes. And so, this single server is
basically aggregating all of the tools
from all the MCPs that we have selected
in the catalog. So, once we start adding
more here, we're going to just see it
still as a single server in our client
just with all the tools from all of our
different servers. And the other thing I
want to say here, I think you'll find
this interesting. This is a quick
30-second explanation how this works.
All of these tools that we add, they run
as Docker containers. So, whenever our
client like Claude Desktop requests to
use a tool, like to get a transcript,
that actually quickly spins up a
container to perform that tool action,
and then once the tool is done running,
it immediately spins the container down.
So, no matter how many MCP servers we
have connected here, it's not like those
containers are constantly running taking
memory on our machine. It's only when
we're using a tool that the container is
actually running. So, extremely
efficient and secure. Very, very cool.
And so, now with Claude Desktop here,
I'm just going to go ahead and test it
with the exact same thing. So, I'll copy
this URL, go back in and say,
"Transcribe this video and give me a
super concise summary." All right, so
we'll just make sure that it can work as
well as Gordon, which quick spoiler,
Claude Desktop does work quite a bit
better than Gordon. It is a lot more
powerful with an LLM running things
under the hood. So, there we go. It's
calling MCP Docker to get the transcript
for the URL, and let's see if we can get
a nice summary here. Awesome, perfect.
Yep, here's our video, what it covers,
key features, looking really good.
Honestly, probably even a better
summary. So, cool. That is the YouTube
transcript MCP, but let's add in a few
more, really spice things up, and
actually get a full workflow created
with these MCP servers. So, I'm just
going to connect a few different ones
that I want to have in my Claude
Desktop. So, I'm going to start with
Slack here. I'll go ahead and add this
server, single click, boom, there we go.
And then we just have to configure a
couple of things, which I already did
off camera. For the team ID and the
channel IDs, you just get these from the
Slack URLs, and then you just have to
create a Slack app and hook in the bot
token here. I'm not going to cover that
right now. Uh you can read the
documentation in Slack if you want. So,
I got Slack connected. What else do we
want here? How about uh GitHub? So, I
did actually try the official GitHub,
and that one wasn't working for me for
some reason, so I'm just going to use
the archived one here because this has
actually been working phenomenally for
me. So, now, all I have to do is add in
my personal access token that I can get
in my GitHub settings, and now we can
access all of my repositories and do
things like create issues on my behalf.
Very, very neat. And then the last one
that I want to add in here, I've been
absolutely loving Obsidian recently.
Probably going to be creating a lot more
content on it in the near future. So,
I'm going to go ahead and add this one.
Obsidian is where I do a lot of my
note-taking and knowledge management.
Like what you're looking at right here
is actually the script that I have
written out for this video right now. I
know it's really meta. But yeah, when
you go into the settings for Obsidian,
you can install community plugins. And
one of these plugins that you can
install is called the local REST API. So
you have to install this, and then it's
going to give you an API key, which is
what you need to hook into the Obsidian
API key right here in the MCP
configuration. So that's how you hook in
Obsidian. Now going back to my servers,
I have four in total now. So I have 26
tools for GitHub, which is kind of a
lot, but we'll roll with it here. Then
we've got Obsidian, Slack, and YouTube
transcripts. And so we can start to
actually define these workflows for the
large language model to combine
functionality from these different
servers. It's really cool. Now, I'm not
going to be testing this with Gordon.
Gordon is a pretty cool guy, but I can
tell from my testing that I've been
doing that it's not powered by the most
powerful LLM. It seems like it's
something like Gemini 2.5 flash or GPT-5
nano. It gets quite overwhelmed with all
of these tools when it has more than a
couple.
And plus I think Gordon is more
fine-tuned to help you with Docker
related things anyway. And so with all
these tools connected, I'm just going to
jump straight to restarting Claude
Desktop and testing things in Claude
Desktop. And I could connect other
clients as well. Like if I wanted to
connect it to Claude Code or Gemini CLI,
but I'll keep on the train here of
Claude Desktop because I love using
Claude Desktop just to generally
brainstorm ideas with an LLM. So yeah,
let's go to search and tools, scroll
down, MCP Docker. I'll click into this,
and sure enough this time we have a much
larger list of tools cuz we have
everything from Slack, Obsidian, YouTube
transcripts, and GitHub. Awesome. So I
can say, for example, what Slack
channels do I have? And it should just
say I have access to a research channel
cuz that's the only one that I've given
the Slack bot access to. So yep, listing
Slack channels. In a second here it
should say research. There we go. Okay,
perfect. Yep. So the Slack MCP is
working. For GitHub I can say, what
GitHub repos do I have? And in a second
here, I'll actually combine some of
these tool usages together to make
something pretty interesting. But yeah,
but first let's just make sure that
these servers are actually working.
There we go. I have 50 GitHub repos.
Take a look at that. That's actually
crazy to me. But yeah, things are
working great. Okay, so that was fun
just testing out the different MCP
servers, seeing these tools in action.
But now let's take it to the next level.
This is where the fun really begins
because I want to create more of a
workflow for my agent to go through
leveraging the different MCP servers in
tandem to accomplish a single larger
task for me. Let's push the limits of
Sonnet 4.5 here. And so what I'm going
to do is send in this request that is
going to require it to work with all
four MCP servers that it has through the
Docker catalog. So I'm having it pull
the transcript for that same Dockling
video. I want it to create a summary and
put it in my Obsidian vault, and I'm
specifically having it put it in this
reference notes folder right here. And
I'll actually delete the previous
Dockling summary that I have just so
that it's starting from scratch. There
we go. Put it in the reference notes
folder. Then after I want it to read my
Dockling research that I have in that
single Slack channel that it has access
to. So just giving it some more context
to then create a GitHub issue for Arkon.
I want to actually integrate Dockling
with Arkon. And then finally, last
thing, we're asking a lot here. Finally,
I want it to add a comment to the issue
saying at Claude fix work on this issue.
That is our way to trigger Claude Code
to autonomously work on this issue. So
we're going from the research phase all
the way to actually kicking off a
workflow for Claude Code to work on this
issue in a repository.
I know this is pretty complex, but that
is the point. I'm trying to ask a lot
here and see how it performs. And I'm
actually super curious. I have not run
this yet. This is my first time doing
it. And so we'll see if it's able to
accomplish everything.
And so yeah, first it is getting the
transcript. I think what I'm going to do
here is let it run. I'll pause and come
back once it's done. We'll read through
the conversation history together and
see if it did what it was supposed to.
Okay, this is actually beyond exciting.
Everything worked flawlessly. And as I'm
speaking, Claude Code is working on this
issue. Take a look at this. This is just
so cool. So it got the transcript. We
saw that already before I I paused to
come back here. Then it is creating the
research summary in Obsidian. Take a
look at this. In the reference notes
folder, I've got Dockling YouTube
tutorial summary. And it even spelled
Dockling right this time. Good for
Sonnet 4.5. So you got our nice little
summary here of the tool as a whole.
Looks really good. Talks about hybrid
chunking, which is one of the things
that I care about. And then going down,
now it goes and it fetches the
conversation history in that Slack
channel. So it lists the channels, finds
that research one. It pulls the channel
history. So there's quite a bit of text
that I have here, just things that I did
to research Dockling. Looking really
good. Then it searches my GitHub
repositories to find the Arkon one. Once
it finds Arkon, then it creates the
issue. And it had a problem creating an
issue the first time it used that tool
call. But LLMs are quite smart,
especially Sonnet 4.5. So it's able to
correct itself, figure out the problem,
call the tool again, and this time it
works, creating that issue for the
Dockling integration. And then finally,
it adds that comment to trigger Claude
Code at Claude-fix work on this issue.
And so yeah, let's actually go to our
browser now. I want to show you here.
First, this is the research that I have
in the Slack conversation that I pulled,
by the way. Then going into Arkon, we
have a new issue. Look at that.
Integrate Dockling for advanced document
processing in the RAG pipeline. We got a
beautifully formatted issue here. And
there we go. At Claude fix work on this
issue. And then Claude Code that I
already have integrated in the
repository respond to this and is in the
middle of processing creating a pull
request for my issue. So end-to-end from
Claude Desktop, I had to do a ton of
research that now finalizes. It
culminates into Claude Code actually
working on this for me. Super, super
cool. All right, Claude Code has
finished its work. It did it all within
a feature branch that I created a pull
request for as well. So you can go to
that, check it out, and boom, there we
go. We have a pull request that was
created end-to-end by automation thanks
to MCP servers and the Docker catalog.
Now I didn't check its work yet here,
but that's not the point. It's totally
good if you don't understand Arkon or
exactly what I'm doing in GitHub here.
The point that I'm trying to drive home
is just how easy it was to create this
agentic workflow with all these MCP
servers that we connected in just a
couple of clicks. Now, what we were able
to do here in Claude Desktop was pretty
incredible. And it's really easy for us
to connect to other clients that are in
this list as well, especially if you
want to take some of these MCP servers
and use them with your coding
assistants. Most of the clients here
actually are coding assistants that you
can connect to. But the big question I
have is how can we use these MCP servers
in our own custom agents within Python
code, within N8N? Well, that's what I'm
going to show you right now. To end
things off for this video, I want to
show you how we can take all this
functionality and use it anywhere. So
we're not just limited to this client
list. As awesome as this list is, and it
does cover the tools that I use
generally, what about my own agents? So
we'll actually start by going back to
Claude Desktop because I want to show
you that the way that Docker connects to
these clients is the same way we can
connect to our custom ones. There's just
a little bit of extra setup we have to
do. So let's go to the settings here.
Let's see how exactly this connection is
set up between the Docker catalog and
Claude Desktop. If you go to the MCP
Docker server here, take a look at this.
It is using this thing called the Docker
MCP gateway. What the heck is the MCP
gateway? Well, it is the tooling under
hood that allows us to connect the MCP
servers in the Docker catalog to all of
those clients in that preconfigured
list. But the beautiful thing with this
MCP gateway is it is actually open
source. And so we have this
documentation page that I'll link to in
the description where they talk about
this. The MCP gateway is Docker's open
source enterprise ready solution for
orchestrating and managing MCP servers.
So the exact same functionality that is
used under the hood to connect with our
catalog and that preconfigured set of
clients like Claude Desktop and Claude
Code, we can use that same
functionality. We can run it ourselves
and then connect our own like what I
have right here in N8N. And I'll show
you this in a second here.
And so going to their open source repo
for MCP gateway, they have some
instructions for setup. You basically
build the gateway from source, and then
we can run it with a couple of different
commands depending on the MCP protocol
specifically that we want to use. Now,
HTTP streamable is the de facto standard
protocol for MCP. So this is the command
that I'm going to run myself. So I
followed the instructions in this readme
to get everything up and running locally
already. So now I can run Docker MCP
gateway. And I'm going to run it on port
8089, and I'm going to use the streaming
transport layer for MCP. So I'll run
this, and it's going to look at my
Docker catalog registry. And it's going
to figure out the MCP servers that I
have connected. So the exact same ones
that we connected within Docker Desktop
in the UI with the catalog we have
available here.
And so it's going to run all of these.
And so now we have the server listening
on port 8089. It's ready to receive any
requests for any of the tools for any of
these servers. It is that easy to get
this all up and running. And so now in
n8n, I'll just show you really quickly.
And now we can do this with like any
agent that we want. n8n is just like the
easiest way to take advantage of this
right out the gate. So, I have a chat
trigger that goes to a super basic AI
agent. Like this is like extremely
barebones right now. I'm just using
GPT-4.1 mini for my LLM. And then for
the MCP client, the connection here is
host.docker.internal
cuz I have to look outside of the n8n
container to my host machine where I'm
running the Docker MCP gateway. And then
the port obviously is 8089 cuz that's
exactly what I selected when I ran the
gateway. And then the server transport
is HTTP streamable. And then
everything's running locally so I don't
have any authentication at this point.
Super easy to get it set up. So, I'll go
back to the canvas here. I can actually
open the chat and show you here. Let's
do something like, you know, what Slack
channels do I have? I'm not going to do
like a whole complex workflow again cuz
we already saw that in action, but we
can just quickly see it. Leverage the
MCP client. It used the Slack list
channels here and we have our research
channel. Cool. And then I can actually
go to the MCP gateway logs and I can see
the logs from the n8n. So, first we have
the connection that's made here from
n8n. And then it's running this specific
tool to list the channels that we have.
Slack list channels. And it took 1.5
seconds in total. So, absolutely
beautiful. And I also did a video
recently on my channel showing you how
to build LiveKit voice agents. And there
I did show very briefly using the Docker
MCP gateway to connect to the servers I
have in the catalog. And so definitely
check out the video I'll link to right
here if you want a full guide on
building LiveKit voice agents. But right
here, I just want to show you another
example of using our custom agents to
talk to these MCP servers that we've
curated. And so in my agent session,
I've just added this MCP servers
parameter where I'm connected to the
same URL that we used in n8n. So again,
connected to the same servers that we
were using in Cloud Desktop and n8n. So
in my console here, I can go ahead and
run this voice agent and let's see it in
action. Hello, how can I assist you
today? Yeah, my GitHub username is
coleam00.
I want you to search my repos and find
the one that has the most stars and tell
me what it is. The repository with the
most stars under your GitHub username
coleam00,
based on the top results, is Arkon. It
is described as the beta release of
Arkon.
>> is the right answer. So, I'll go ahead
and close out of that there. But there
you go. We have a live voice agent that
is connected to all the servers that we
have curated in our Docker catalog. So
there you go. That, my friend, is
everything that I have to cover right
now for the Docker MCP catalog. And huge
thanks to Docker for actually
collaborating with me on this video just
to make sure that I was hitting on all
of the important features that we have
with the MCP catalog. Okay, it really is
the easiest way to bring external
functionality into our AI agents like I
showed you in this video. So, if you
appreciated this video and you're
looking forward to more things AI and AI
agents, I'd really appreciate a like and
a subscribe. And with that, I will see
you in the next video.