Before we get started, just want to give
a round of applause for this amazing
event today. Shout out to Moshtra, shout
out to all of you all for being there.
Really appreciate it.
Um, a show of hands, how many of you all
are building agents with Moshtra in
production today?
Few. Okay, cool.
Um,
over the last year, we've been building
um, on top of Moshtra for a lot of
agents in our product and I wanted to
share just kind of some of the war
stories and challenges we ran into,
solutions we had to come up with to
um, make these agents reliable and work
really well.
Um, a little bit of background about
Range. Uh, we are an all-in-one
AI-powered wealth management product.
And so, if anyone here is familiar with
financial advisors, we offer the same
set of services, um, all-in-one, uh,
from investments, taxes, cash flow,
retirement, and all that stuff. Um, you
know, the major difference for us is
we're not an in-person advisor, we're
not going to take you out to dinner,
we're an AI-driven product experience
and we are much cheaper than traditional
advisors.
So, we've been building on top of
Moshtra for quite some time. I actually
looked it up. The first Discord message
I sent to the uh, Moshtra Discord was
April 11th, 2025. And uh, we were trying
to do all sorts of different stuff back
then. Uh, I remember, you know, having
to install like an alpha branch that
lived in our code base for a little bit
too long than I'd like to admit. Um,
just to get things like containers
working and uh, execution context shared
uh, between different steps and
different tools. Um,
but we've we've now shipped a number of
different agents on top of Moshtra. Uh,
Rye is our flagship AI agent. Um, it can
give uh, high-quality financial advice
using a lot of the same technology that
we built for our human advisors over the
years. Um, and so, you know, we've
benchmarked that. Uh, it's trained on
our internal investment philosophy using
the same tooling and we benchmarked it
across a variety of uh, financial
advising uh, certifications and exams.
Um, Rye can pass with flying colors the
typical human financial advisor passes
with about a 70%.
Um and so our users ask questions like,
you know, make me a tax plan for 2026,
help me save in taxes.
Um and the way it works is Rye will
actually uh execute a tax projection
um
using our tax projection system that we
built internally. We've codified all 50
uh states and federal uh tax codes as
well.
Um but we also have various other types
of agents including things like
onboarding. Um if anyone's ever worked
with a traditional financial advisor,
you know, one of the biggest pain points
is giving them all of your contacts, all
of your documents, that sort of stuff.
We have a bunch of different uh document
parsing workflows and things like that.
Um we also have a team of financial
advisors in-house and we've built agents
to help them do their job more
efficiently.
Um and uh as well as our support staff,
uh we built a number of support
diagnostic agents as well.
One of the things that we had to focus
on or there's three big buckets that we
had to focus on as we were scaling our
agents in production. Um
We are a uh SEC-registered uh investment
advisor and what that means is there are
certain uh SEC regulations we have to
adhere to and from things around data
retention and and so forth. Um logging
out the uh and so we had to focus really
heavily on things like um logging,
auditability, uh making sure we captured
all of the different uh metadata and
thinking traces uh across every single
element tool call.
We had to focus on reliability. Uh
reliability, nothing feels kind of worse
than uh chatting with your agent about,
you know, really complex financial
topics and having it not work. Um and so
we really had to spend spend a lot of
time focus on how do we handle failover,
how do we handle resiliency. Um and, you
know, I I'm a big component of speed
being a superpower. And so we really
wanted to build state-of-the-art
intelligence, um super high-quality
financial advice, uh and have it be very
very low latency.
And lastly, we focused a lot, you know,
related to the first two around
observability.
Um,
tracing per, you know, different sort of
steps and sub-agent executions was was
really important to us. You can't really
understand
how your agent's performing if you can't
understand, you know, within the various
like nested executions, what's actually
going on.
The first thing I want to talk about is,
you know, in the early days, I know the
the Maestro framework has matured
greatly since we started building on it,
but you really had two options in the
early days. You had workflows or you had
agents. We over-indexed actually pretty
heavily on workflows for some of the
reasons I mentioned earlier, things
around latency and so forth.
Um,
the the key takeaway here is though, you
you want to make sure you're picking the
right abstraction. A lot of folks have
been talking about agents. Sometimes
workflow's actually the right thing to
choose. For instance,
we do a lot of like document parsing,
you know, and so that's like a four-step
process. You might, you know,
pre-process some documents, classify
them, extract the information from them,
and then validate you did the right
thing.
And then, you know, for agents, you want
to use
when the task is open-ended for
non-super latency-critical applications
as well. Um, we've seen a lot of
success, just as everyone else seems to
like have presented today, um,
giving agents a bunch of tools. It works
really well. The latest models perform
really really well given a bunch of
tools. And so, these these are some of
the tools that we've built for our
agent. Um, these are, you know, for
context, like these were tools that we
built for our humans before we even
built AI, and then wiring them up to our
agents just kind of worked.
So,
um, around observability,
these are some of the things we did. Um,
we implemented
Maestro and AI SDK actually provide a
lot of really great like hooks around,
you know, various aspects of the
execution life cycle. So, we have
logging for things, uh, for sub-agent
execution. Um, every single, you know,
step starts, completes, tool call
starts, stops.
Um, we have metrics around latency,
successes, failures, token usage. Um,
and then, as I mentioned around our
compliance use cases, we needed to think
about archiving,
um, for, you know, to make sure we're
adhering to the various regulator
policies that we need to do. On the
left-hand side, or on the, yeah,
left-hand side here, um,
this sort of like what a trace looks
like. I think we we built our own
internally, but I think Mosaic just
released their, um,
metrics and loggings in their studio.
So, you should probably try that.
The other thing we spent a lot of time
doing,
uh, was making sure our models are
really resilient. And we are seeing
like, I'm sure you all see this, if
you're all Claude Code users, how many
folks here are using Claude Code?
All right, cool. A lot of hands going
up. Um, every day at like 9:00 a.m.,
Claude Code kind of has like a blip or
an outage. I think a lot of these
different providers are very capacity
constrained. And so, we wanted to make
sure that, again, our system was very
resilient to, you know, outages and
errors.
Um, and so, we built something called
the resilient language model.
Um, this allows us to do failover in a
couple different ways. You can do things
like failover from Anthropic API to
Bedrock. You can [clears throat]
failover from Claude Opus 4/6 to, you
know, Gemini 3.1 Pro. Um,
one of the learnings that we had was
around, um,
you think you're being clever by saying
like, "Oh, let's just failover to
Bedrock." Turns out everybody's also
failing over to Bedrock, and so you kind
of have this like cascading sort of
outages. So, you want to have control
over how you're failing over,
um, and really make sure that your
models can be resilient.
And then, I spent so much of my waking
hours over the last year thinking about
how to measure whether or not our AI
financial advice is good. And so, you
know, you can do so much with evals.
One of the things that we felt, uh, that
we found to be very effective was kind
of this post-generation analysis.
The short story here is like we use LLM
as a judge to evaluate content after
it's being evaluated across a bunch of
different metrics and it gives us like a
live kind of pulse on how our system is
performing and what's working or if we
need to do things like, you know,
escalate to human or and so forth. Um,
and so, you know, Mantra allows us to
obviously execute the different aspects
of our workflows,
um, but then it allows us to kick off
this like asynchronous process as well
to do this compliance and quality
checks, um, in the background.
Some of the things just like at a really
high level that we're checking for are
around grounding rate. So, for instance,
is our AI RR agents using uh, the data
that they retrieved uh, as part of the
workflow in the response, um,
user sentiment analysis, are people, you
know, angry, are they swearing, those
type of things. Um, missing data or
corrections. So, a lot of times if if
our users say, "Hey, my income is
actually $100,000. You said it was
$50,000." That's something we would want
to know and try to understand, you know,
where did this come from? And then
a variety of different compliance and
policy checks,
um, things like as a SEC registered RIA,
we have to think about things like, um,
fiduciary standard, uh, duty of care,
duty of loyalty, are we including the
right disclosures? Disclosures are just
like, you know, investment, you know,
uh, performance is past performance is
not indicative of future gains, that
type of thing. Uh, for certain type of
responses you need that uh, content in
the actual response as well.
And so, you know, what we needed, you
all might need as well. Um, I know that,
you know, where we sort of had to
over-index a lot on compliance, but as I
was thinking about this talk, um,
really what compliance solves for is
like explainability and a lot of the
stuff that we built really solves for
like explainability, trying to pinpoint
exactly why the agent made the response
that it did. Um, I think is pretty
generally applicable. Um, and so
hopefully these three sort of buckets
help you think about uh, what you all
need to do to scale your agents in
production.
Um, so yeah, thank you very much. I
really appreciate your time and
attention. Um,
the last thing I'll mention is we are
hiring. My role here is chief AI
architect, but I'm also head of talent
right now, and so uh, if any of you all
are looking to join Range, come talk to
me after.
>> [applause]
>> David, thank you so much.
>> Thanks, man. We actually have time for a
few questions and answers. If you drop
heads? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. I'm going
to bring Sam up as well. Hey, Sam.
Thanks.
Good to see you.
Amazing talk. So,
think I I think it's um, the thing I
think was really interesting about the
talk is that because
a lot more people sort of are tinkering
and playing around with building agents
than building agents. And the people
that are like building agents haven't
sort of pushed them as far as you guys
have pushed them. I think you've given
folks a lot of really interesting
insights into
what, you know, agents look like sort of
at scale with all the guardrails that
you've put in. Yeah, absolutely. Um,
it it took about, you know, a year of
kind of banging our head against various
aspects of the process, but um, you
know, very proud of what we built and
continuing looking to see
uh, what you all continue getting up to
and how the framework matures. Yeah, I
mean, we're excited to to see what you
cook up with it. Um, I think you you
said like
you said one thing during talk that I
was kind of curious about. What you said
you were going to kind of give give us
like the short version of what um, you
guys were doing with the with post
generation analysis. What is the the
long version of it?
Uh, so the long version, let me think
about that for a sec. So,
the long version is we have this whole
like pipeline that like anyone
across the company can actually plug
into in terms of like the way um, after
generating content, like you might want
to plug in your specific policy. I don't
know, for instance, like
the the the post-generation analysis of
determining what is good is very
different for a piece of financial
advice that's like trying to make a tax
projection for you versus something
that's doing like a summary of like
investment news, right? And so, we have
different aspects. Um one thing that
maybe is not clear is that we, you know,
we have over 15 agents right now running
in production. Um all of them have kind
of like different definition of like
what good looks like. And so, having
like a live view of what that, you know,
the live view of the metrics and what
how that looks and is behaving in real
time is has actually been very helpful.
Yeah. That that's awesome. Um another
question I had was you were kind of
walking through the the technical
aspects, but I'd be really interested um
to get a little bit more into like the
human aspects here. So, how many folks
at Range are are building agents?
Um I the engineering team at Range
probably gets sick of tired of me
hearing this, but I tell everybody that
they're all AI engineers, right? Like um
we are pretty much we're a team of about
25 uh technical folks. And so, everyone
is building agents. Everyone is building
on top of our sort of like we call it
internally like our AI platform um
to, you know, build the products and
features that our customers love.
One interesting thing, you know, when as
it relates to sort of people building at
Range, we've actually been developing a
lot of developer technology for
um non-technical folks to contribute
code. And so, now at this point, all of
our PMs, all of our designers, they're
pushing code live to Range, and um it's
been amazing to see. Yeah, that's really
great. What's been like
you know, as
have you hired folks that have come in
with, you know, AI engineering
backgrounds or you're hiring sort of
general-purpose developers and they're
kind of learning this stuff on the fly?
How is that process been as they've
you've been like bringing new folks on
into like into building agents? Yeah. Um
we have not been hiring like
specifically AI engineers in particular.
I think
there's not that many of them out there
and sort of like a new uh title uh
especially, you know, as as things
continue to evolve. We have one person
who focuses on machine learning at Range
and they help us, you know, one thing I
didn't talk about is actually early days
when we were building things with
primarily master workflows. We were
actually doing training on our own
models to like inject in certain parts
of that workflow to like optimize for
latency. And so we brought that person
on to help us like build and scale out a
lot of that stuff. Yeah. Um but
primarily folks are generalists and
things like that.
>> Are you still training your own models
or how is that kind of like I don't It's
interesting. Um so
we we actually moved to more workflows
being agentic in nature. So basically
all of the stuff we were training these
models to like uh optimize for, the
model yeah, somebody mentioned earlier
just like kind of being bitter lesson
filled like you know, we I think the the
model capability's getting better um
sort of eat your scaffolding. And so
we're we're you know, and that's great
by the way. Like I think
I could
>> too. Yeah. It's great when it's great
it's a lot like it's great that when AI
engineering eats the ML engineering.
Exactly.
>> it's a lot easier to to operate on this
level of the stack than that level of
the stack. Absolutely, yeah. But I mean
to your point like I think we had to
upskill a lot and like Claude and these
other AI coding tools allowed us to move
really quickly in building a lot of this
stuff.
Primarily probably because we're using
TypeScript. And so you know, there's a
lot of uh
generalist full stack, you know,
whatever type of engineers can do a lot
of damage uh with the tooling that we
have available today. Yeah. Um so so
that's maybe also a good like opening
into you know, are there other things
that you started or maybe you were doing
six months or nine months or 12 months
ago and you aren't doing anymore and and
maybe that's because they were the wrong
approach. Maybe it was just cuz the
models got more powerful.
Yeah, one of the things we um
the one thing that comes to mind really
quickly is around our like onboarding
workflows and agents that we built.
Part of um
as you're ramping up with a traditional
financial advice, you got to give away
over like all your documents and connect
your bank accounts to the platform that
you use plaid, Yodlee, MX, like the
different data aggregators and stuff
like that. What we found is that all of
those like banking connections tend to
be hit or miss for about, you know, 80%
of things it works fine, but for the 20%
it's very painful. So, we built ways
into the product
to allow folks like supplement with
additional data. One way you do that is
you can upload a document or a statement
or something like that and we can
extract it. Um one of the things we
found early on was we were actually
doing um OCR, passing it to textract,
extra like taking that text, passing it
to an LLM, having it massage it and and
use structured outputs to put in a
specific format. Um and we found we were
able to skip that OCR step in a lot of
cases now. And so, like that's like
another thing that we've seen recently.
Uh
agents are eating OCR? Agents are eating
OCR, yeah.
>> Or better models or
Um that's that's awesome. Yeah.
You mentioned you compared agents and
workflows. I was curious if you've
explored the advantages of multi-agent
systems. I'm thinking about things like
the supervisor pattern. Um
the we have like a more uh the way our
system works today is there are certain
like sub-agents, but it's like not a,
you know, kind of free-form sort of
sub-agents. Like one of the cool things
I like about your guys' framework is
agents and workflows are very
composable, and so you can use workflows
and agents um as you see fit. And so,
there are some sub-agent like
executions, but it's a little bit more
guided and less like open-ended. Yeah. I
see. Yeah. Well, David, thank you so
much. All right, thank you.
>> [applause]
>> It's pretty cool to get to learn from a
master user.
>> Yeah. And I quite like watching how
enthusiastic you are about learning
about their experience, because it's
that
>> [laughter]
>> that is the kind of attitude and the
philosophy that makes master better
every time. I mean, it's also this like
really interesting part of being kind of
the the tool guys is that you know, we
we're thinking about the primitives and
and you know, we only learn about a lot
of this stuff through these kinds of
conversations. So, but but at the same
time like it's nice because and I think
this is also just true of this
conference and being here in this room
is that the more you we learn the more
we can share.