Fridays are for customers. Every Friday,
each one of us picks a task and tries to
ship it to make someone really happy.
Let's see what we got up to.
>> Hey, dead coder. Um, thank you for the
bug reports on the API key dialogue not
being scrollable. Um, I've gone ahead
and pushed the fix. So now you can add
as many environment variables as you
want. And uh, thank you.
>> Did you know that when you specify the
role in a prompt, you can use cache
control to control caching with entropic
models? Well, you can, but as the user
statico pointed out, our llinter
actually didn't know about this. And if
you try to use this feature, you will
get an annoying llinter warning. We try
to make our tooling as helpful as
possible. So, I patched this bug. And
now, if you use the cache control
parameter, no llinter warning. Thank
you, Statico. Hey, firstly Ben Epstein,
I wanted to thank you for reporting this
bug where it was taking you forever to
get the request API out of uh BAML uh
modular API. [music] And what we noticed
was even in time it this was happening
all of the time. It turned out that this
was due to a bug in the vertex API where
we weren't actually catching the
credentials and we pinged Google every
single time to get a new token. I've
patched that bug for you since. And now
when I run this code, as you can see,
getting the mean after the warm-up time
is incredibly fast and you should have
no more issues. This is going to make
life better for everyone else that use
the vertex. Thanks, Benpstein. Hey guys,
I want to share an amazing feature that
we have today that you can do with
Prompt Fiddle. Prompt Fiddle is this
playground that we have that you can
embed into other websites and blogs. And
you can see here a little demo. Here's
the playground. You can just hit run and
it'll run the BAML code right in your
browser. [music] And so why do we have
this? Why it reduces friction to use
BAML and it can showcase the capability
without us having to do all the work.
Let's say somebody else is going and
putting this onto their website. Other
day somebody came to us and asks uh we
have uh 2,000 Medium followers and we
want to write a article and we want to
embed a playground uh directly into
their blog posts. [music] So today this
is what happens. prop preview coming
soon. It does not work. Now it works.
Happy bambling.
>> So in this video, we're going to take a
look at the new APIs added to the type
builder because some users have been
asking for specific methods like remove
property, list properties, and so on,
which are not currently available on the
type builder. We're going to have the
remove property method, which will allow
you to remove any property that you've
added to an existing class or to a new
class in in both of them. So, as I was
saying, we have remove property. We also
have list properties, which gives you a
key value object of all the properties
that you've added so far. And then we
have a simpleclear method that basically
gets rid of everything you've added uh
in this case to the user class, right?
Same thing for um newly added classes.
So, this will allow you to have some
more control over the type builder. It's
not just add stuff to it. Now, you can
actually remove things from it. So it's
a little bit more flexible.
>> I'm excited to announce that we have
shipped a new experience, an agentic
experience for navigating and exploring
the BAML documentation called Ask BAML.
This is live today. You can go to
docs.boundaryl.com.
Try it out. You can go and ask it
questions like what is an alias? And it
will hint. It'll do exactly what you
expect
out of an AI search assistant and it'll
give you a customized answer to your
query. It'll automatically navigate you
to the documentation you're looking for.
You can ask it questions like tell me
about the difference between field and
block attributes, field and class
attributes. It'll return the same
answer. It'll automatically send you
here. It'll give you a short summary as
appropriate for your question.
And instant search is still function
perfectly functioning. So you can search
alias, you can search attributes,
dynamic, whatever, and you'll get all
the autocomplete and it still allows you
to actually like see the documentation
if there's like something on the page
that you're looking for. We really hope
you enjoy this. Please do let us know if
you run into any issues with this. We
are always on the Discord and we are
paying constant attention to it. Thanks.
Hello American thinker and Andrew D on
Discord. First of all, thanks a lot for
reporting this bug where you all were
not able to set pamel log using uh pamel
options and even process.env in the case
of TypeScript. I thought I'll record a
quick video about how I fixed it and how
you actually uncovered a big bug in our
logger itself. So jumping straight to
the PR, I started up with writing some
integration tests and once I wrote some
integration tests, I was able to
reproduce the same buggy behavior myself
and then I wrote some unit tests for
logger to figure out where to to narrow
down where the bug was. Actually plot
code helped me a lot with this to write
tests and to narrow down the problem.
And once I knew where the problem was, I
was able to fix it. And the fix
basically was to read and update
environment variables from the hashmap
which is passed from the language
runtime to bam's runtime. And previously
the logger was using std env. So now
that's all fixed. And I think this is
also shipped in the latest release which
is.203.
And the best part of fixing this bug was
actually getting this message from
American Thinker here where they were
really happy with the fix. So, I hope
this helps you. The bay.