Fridays are for customers. Every Friday,
each one of us picks a task and tries to
ship it to make someone really happy.
Let's see what we got up to.
>> Hello Yoshi. Thanks for your report on
Bama Playground. Now you can run tests
and at the same time you can open the
sidebar as much as you want.
>> Hey Hunter, thanks for letting us know
that our licenses were not getting set
correctly in Baml Pi. Um that is now
fixed. We have tracked it down and we
have also added a step to our CI to make
sure that this doesn't happen again.
>> VIP gave a popular workshop on prompt
engineering in December of 2025.
Baltifix was asking for notes from that
meeting. They're a little hard to find
so I just added them to our blog.
Thank you Luke for submitting this PR
that fixes egg script modules. The only
entry that you missed in the export map
was the logging entry but other than
that you nailed it. So this PR is being
merged right now. Thank you for
submitting it.
>> With Prompt Fiddle, you have the ability
to see all your files and tests uh all
in one place and run them. Uh we were
having some issues though um with
scrolling behavior that uh we uh
released on a recent issue. Uh and so
now um we've been able to fix that uh
with a couple things uh by having our
test fly out like this. Um, and
uh, we no longer have uh, any issues
with sizing.
>> Hi Zuski, thank you for reporting the
issue where multimodal types weren't
working with the OpenAI responses
provider for BAML. We were actually
rendering the prompt but not rendering
the actual content inside of the prompt.
We've actually fixed this issue and now
as you can see multimodal types for the
OpenI responses API works perfectly. The
URL gets generated correctly. The
preview works and we've also gone ahead
and added a bunch more tests into our
core system. So we actually validate the
core web API request is exactly what
you'd expect. Thanks for your help,
Zooski.
Hey, Alec. Uh so you called out for us
that the way that aliases override enum
value rendering um was inconsistent or
is inconsistent today uh between context
output format and enum values. And I'm
happy to report that this is now fixed.
So if we alias the refund category enum
enum value uh to give me my money back
you'll see that context output format
does exactly what you expect it to but
values are now also uh now instead of
showing the string refund now show like
the actual alias. In addition we have
also added the ability to actually
access enum values um in prompt
templates as just direct literal the way
you expect it to. Um, and this is pretty
important because the way the reason
that we would render enum values as the
value string and not the alias is
because the way that this used to work
is that you could actually do something
like
this where you would compare the enum
value with the string representation
value starting in 20 BAML 206. Hopefully
uh this will no longer be allowed and we
will require users uh to actually use
the enum literals um in their templates
moving forward. There are probably still
one or two edge cases that we have to
hammer out um but with any luck we'll
have it out in 206.0. Thanks.