All right,
>> let's do it.
>> Welcome back everyone. Uh it's another
uh week of AI that works. You've got
myself Vibov and my co-host Dexter. And
today uh we're going to talk about a
topic that I think is a little shift
from what we've been talking about a
while. We're going to go back into the
depth of models for a long time. We've
been talking about concepts context
engineering and other application level
stuff. Today we're going to go deep.
We're going to talk about multimodality.
There's a lot of models now. Models
support APIs take PDFs. APIs take
videos. APIs take audio. APIs take
images. APIs take text. How do we think
about that from a foundational level? I
think is I think is the goal of what I
would love to talk about today. Dra,
does that sound about right?
>> Uh, yeah. I'm looking forward to going
under the hood and and looking also I
think um we talked about if there's time
going into some of the more full stacky
multimodal experiences like chat GPT
image gen or like the Gemini PDF parser
and kind of just looking I know you're
spend a lot of time understanding how
those things work under the hood so
learning how to best implement those
things I think could be really
interesting. Um, yeah, I think let's
let's just start off with something
really really basic. Um, and we're going
to do a screen share, but before I do
that, I'm going to make sure that I have
access to the whiteboard.
>> Um, Dexra, can you give me access to it
really fast?
>> Oh, did that not work? Hold on.
>> No, it didn't. Um, but I think what I
want to start off with is how many of
you in the chat and you can raise your
hands, type in chat, whatever you want,
uh, actually use multimodality
uh, with models today beyond just text.
A couple people
um, it sounds um, how many of you trust
the multimodality of systems as they
work out there?
Hit or miss? That's generally uh some
people say yes. Um I think generally
what I have seen with multimodality is
it's definitely gotten better from how
the systems worked to how they used to
be when they first came out. Models are
in my opinion like in front when it
comes to OCR.
>> There's no better OCR system than a
multimodal LLM. Those are
state-of-the-art.
That doesn't mean that you should only
use LM for OCR. Um I think um one of the
experiences that I remember the most is
when I worked on Face ID. Uh when I
first got into there, I came from a very
different background than a lot of other
folks. I come from a background where I
think of um
I used to hate machine learning. I don't
really believed in it for a long time. I
came from geometric. I was like, we're
going to use math to solve all the
problems and math is correct because
math I can see, I can understand these
multiplications that somehow make valid
data is like I don't even know like I
don't know what to do with it and my
brain didn't really compute. Um, so I
just ignored it for a long time and
every time someone on my team said we
should use not LM like transformers or
CNN's or anything of that sort, I'd say
nah, let's just do math. Um and the
people
>> just do it deterministically and not do
the like back back propagation and
machine learning thing.
>> Exactly. Um and we used to do all this
pre-processing like we take these images
of faces and like items and we'd say
okay let's use math to find contour
lines. So we could find like uh like you
see the wall behind me. You can find
contour lines by like tracking down like
contrast ratios over here. And there's a
lot of math you can do to like make
contrast more applicable and everything.
Oh, like looking like from pixel to
pixel and almost like you would draw
like an elevation map with like rings
based on solar elevations. The same
algorithms you can use to Okay.
>> And there's all sorts of algorithms you
can do here to go find them like LCN
other things that you can go do.
>> We do that and then we say okay now
let's make sure that we hide away pixels
that are really far from the edges so
the model has cleaner data to train on.
We were trying to pre-process the data
before getting into the model. It turned
out that was dumb and the better thing
to have then would have been to just
collect more data and train a bigger
model. We're wrong. Models are really,
really, really good. Um, but I think
there's a thing that a lot of people
forget which is when you try and do uh
models,
people try and do everything with
models. And that's not to say that that
won't happen, but it's really good to
understand the constraints of a system.
If I'm trying to build a like let's say
a URL encoder where I take a URL and I
encode it into like a string that I can
actually pass to a model uh into a
website. You're right. I can ask an LLM
to go do that. I can even ask an LM to
generate random gooids or UUIDs for my
database entries. Should I? No. It's the
wrong tool for the job. And it's the
same way with like uh VLMs and image
processing pipelines. Can you trust AI
pipelines that use images? 100%. Will
you trust them a lot more if the images
have backed data with verification?
110%.
And when you're using AI, that's what
you need. You need that 110% guarantee
to feel really good about it. So, and I
think that's what I want to that's
really what I want to talk about. How do
we get to 110% guarantee? And I think
the Excala draw is working. And my stall
time worked. Uh, so let's screen share.
Uh, and go do that. Dexter, do you want
to screen share by chance? Or I can
actually better.
>> I can I you should screen share.
>> I realize I don't have two screens
today, so I will just screen share.
>> As per usual, if you see anything you're
not supposed to see, please uh let us
know so we can edit it out of the
YouTube video. Um, but otherwise, the
game is uh fair play. So PDFs,
multimodality, and vision models. Let's
start off with a really, really simple
problem. Let's say my goal is to take a
bank transaction statement and extract
all the transaction out transactions out
of it. The bank transaction statement is
going to come in PDF form.
Problem with PDFs is models don't
actually directly understand PDFs. So
let's understand what a PDF is. PDF is
going to be multiple pages. So I'll
actually have multiple pages.
>> And just before we get into the pages
thing, like PDF under the hood is
basically a bunch of XML, right? It's
like metadata. It's like characters and
metadata about how they display, right?
>> I think so. But I also think the way
that PDF is done is really PDF
implementation specific because like
sometimes load it purely as an image,
some stupid PDF systems don't actually
like make the
>> kind of format and it's a pure image
saved as a PDF.
>> Yeah. Right. When you scan pages for
like a link or something that's you end
up with Oh,
can you hear me? Okay.
Oh, I lost all my audio. Sorry. One sec.
>> There you go.
>> Hear you. I was lost my back.
>> Okay, there we go. Sorry. Um, when you
like scan a book in the library and you
get the PDF or like when you're in
college, you have those like PDFs that's
just like literally pictures of the book
text. It's not actual renders as text.
>> Exactly. So, like you run into all sorts
of problems like that. So, like how do
we how do we go and deal this? So, I'm
just going to break this problem down
and just talk about PDFs as PDFs first.
And when I think about PDFs, I'm going
to stop thinking about the PDFs. I'm
going to just think of it as pages. The
simplest thing you can do is not think
about like pages. Take your PDF, toss it
to the Open AI or some other API point
that takes like a PDF object directly.
Um, and they take it as like a B 64 or
as a um what's the other option they do?
Or like a file URL or something and you
pass it in and the model basically just
spits out whatever you want and injects
in part of the prompt. Now, a lot of
people assume that they train the model
on PDFs.
I probably wouldn't assume that
personally because if you actually go
read the documentation about most of
these systems,
most people what they actually do with
PDFs is they do the same thing that we
were going to do, which is we take every
PDF, we turn into pages and then open
tells you this directly. What they do is
they take they pass in the pages as
images.
pages as images plus OCR text. That's
all they're doing when you pass in the
image as a PDF. They're converting the
PDF from pages to images and then adding
in those text as a part of the prompt.
I think Gemini does something similar as
well and I believe um Enthropic likely
does something similar as well. That's
not to say that this method is good.
That's not to say this method is bad.
All that you have to know is that
someone is doing some work on your
behalf to convert it into the API format
they want. Why does that matter? Well,
it's because the way that you pass in
the PDF, the way that you convert a page
into an image can vary a lot with PDFs.
You can choose what ending resolution
you want the image to be at. You might
have PDFs of extremely long shapes.
Enthropic might end up cropping it by
accident because they
>> right. They chunk it up into square
regions of the thing and send those all
as separate images maybe.
>> Exactly. Like you you have no idea. And
it might be good, it might be bad. But
if you're if you're operating on a
standard 8 by like A4 page, you're
probably fine. The minute you start
skewing from that, you have to remember
that people are probably not doing the
standard stuff and you're not doing
standard stuff. using a standard API is
probably going to hurt your performance.
I think if you actually look at the
anthropic docs, uh, images docs, and I
think I was reading this and I've been
surprised by how few people actually
read this, which is there are aspect
ratios that tell you the maximum image
size. And I constantly see people
passing in images bigger than this size.
And I'm like, okay, that's okay. But you
got to also remember what people are
going to be what these companies have to
do. If you pass in an image that doesn't
meet this size, they're going to have to
either crop or resize your image to
scale it. If your images aren't exactly
one of these ratios, you're probably
hurting your performance because
>> and that's because the actual like uh
like encoding layers on the transformer
can only or on the model can only handle
like images of certain sizes and they
basically it's like cheaper for them to
pre-process to a set of specific sizes
than like train the model to handle
every single size.
>> I suspect it's just what they've trained
to be honest and these recommendations
probably just come from training. I
don't know. I don't work at these model
companies.
>> Um, just to be very very uh clear and
with machine learning like remember
everything is just a see where the wind
goes kind of thing and it's hard to know
exactly what things are happening
especially in closed source systems but
like my intuition would really just urge
me to believe that like if they
recommend certain image uh aspect ratios
like models perform based on training
data. So like if they've if they've only
trained on images of this data set
resolution,
the model can probably infer a lot of
things, but if 95% of the data is this,
it'll probably just work better on
something like this.
And I'm going to guess that where we're
going with this is basically like if one
of the thing one of the takeaways for me
so far is like if you're going to hand
an image to the model provider and let
them basically be the ones that uh that
do the resizing for you. You might as
well do the resizing yourself so you
have more control and more kind of
determinism around like exactly which
region of the image is there or exactly
how it gets cropped or whatever.
>> Yeah. And at least I think at the very
least knowing it it's like what we say
with every with using the best model use
the fastest thing first. Not in terms of
speed but the thing that gets you up and
running first. So like what do I do? We
use big models. We use GPT40. We use 03.
We use opus. We use these bigger models
at first and then we realize that we
have a performance problem or cost
problem. So then we bring it in. I
actually would advise the same to these
image models. know that you if you don't
know that the model providers are doing
this, then you then you get stuck. But
if you know that they're doing this,
then you can do the standard thing, just
dump it into the model providers. And if
it doesn't work, then we'll pull out
tools out of our tool belt and apply
what we know by understanding the system
and do better than what they do.
And that's usually my advice. But before
we go into this and like go really deep
into how to solve this exact problem
because this is the one we'll be coding
today. I want to spend a little bit more
time talking about how multimodality
actually works. Um anyone have a hunch
about how uh how images work differently
than text
in multimodal systems?
Uh let's see. You can uh if you guys
have thoughts by the way feel free to
raise your hand. Just come on mute and
let's I'd love to hear someone's take.
And remember, no one actually knows the
answer to this, so everyone is
speculating at best. Um, so I want to
call that out,
Dex. Do you have thoughts?
>> Um,
probably, but they'll probably make me
sound pretty dumb.
>> Well, I'm going to sound really dumb
when I start talking. So
>> I mean I guess uh my my rough
understanding is essentially um similar
to how a model can embed text and like
take a bunch of text and then apply
attention to it and build a set of
vector tokens that represent meaning. Um
there are similar kind of um encoders
decoders that can take an image and turn
it into a vector that has that same sort
of meaning.
Yeah, I think that's basically it. I
think the key answer that I the key
thing that I think about is like in the
end all we have is tokens. The ELM
architecture doesn't fundamentally
change when you toss multiodality into
it. It's still just tokens. So when we
go and use these tokens to go do
something
um the way that I always look at it is
with text we know how the tokenizer
works. So if I go and show the where did
it go?
H OpenAI tokenizer and we look at this
you'll notice that you can like actually
see the tokens that are being typed in
and open even shows you this. None of
the multimodal providers will show you
their tokenizer except perhaps the open
source ones for how images tokenization
works. And I suspect that's because it
turns out images are much much harder to
train and there the vocabulary there is
much harder to like generalize on like
what these token ids mean or maybe
there's a novel technique that I don't
know about or any other such thing but
no one so far is really revealing this.
So and that's also why when you look at
cost everything is always just an
approximation of cost and there's no way
to actually go and predict uh tokens as
well. Um, and it's always an estimate.
That's because I bet people are doing
weird things with tokenization
uh under the hood that per images to
make them really work really really
well. Like they probably do image
compression. They probably do all sorts
of like taking out background images out
of PGs might be treated differently than
like JPEG. Who knows?
So what I would think about when you
have an image is as a general rule of
thumb without knowing any specific
tokenizer we can think about what
tokenization means and all tokenization
means and I do not want arrows. I want
no arrow heads.
How do I get rid of arrow heads? Um
oh I do have to do L. Sorry. An image
gets broken down into tokens like this.
I b and this is the most simplistic
version that you can do is you just
break it down to a grid and you would
take each grid cell and each grid cell
will become a token of some kind.
The other thing that we can do is if I'm
doing this, I'm going to run into
problems. Like for example, if I have
text like this, the horse is lonely
today.
Clearly, I'm going to run into
conditions where things that live on the
boundary of these systems are just going
to perform worse than content that lives
within a single cell because it's harder
for it to generalize.
Especially if I'm asking for like really
really um summarized information because
in order for it to summarize information
across the whole image, it's going to
have to not only read every cell, but
it's going to have to draw inferences
between how each cell connects and how
inference is done on each cell.
Uh, did you have a question, chat?
Okay. On the other hand,
if I have a cell that has a bunch of
small text, like the horse is doing fine
today, I don't know why I'm talking
about horses. I don't even like horses.
Um, and all of us lives in a single
cell. Then we'll have we'll run into a
different problem, which is I've now
done compression on the token side. So
where one token now has a lot of
information in it. So while I do really
good summarization tasks, I'm going to
do much much worse at like detail
oriented tasks. Like if there's like a
two whole paragraphs in there, I just
lost information.
You can kind of relate it to like the
DRM concept that we were talking about
uh in the last few episodes where like
you could have memory for the month, for
the week, for the day, and for the
entire chat history directly transcribed
in and they provide different purposes,
but the tokenizer for an image is
inherently going to end up doing that
accidentally or on purpose. It's really
up to you. So
>> the claw thing was made it look like 750
like they're divided by 750 which makes
me think that it's the regions are
around 750 pixels right per token
>> maybe.
>> And so you could easily have a whole
sentence in 750 pixels.
>> Yeah. So like I I don't really know to
be honest. Like maybe that's just like
the raw math that they did. They might
have like
>> Yeah. Like when we do like
>> it's not they're not all going to be the
same size, right? There's something in
there that is basically chunking up the
image in a smart way to try to make the
regions into like contiguous bits. I
would assume
>> like the fact that the strawberry is red
is four tokens is like like no one would
know the word strawberry. I didn't know
the strawberry is going to be one token
in the tokenizer. Um like but it is uh
and it didn't used to be. It used to be
two tokens. Uh I can find other there's
some other tokens where it used to be
has two tokens or something. Um, and I
know like strawberry without a space is
definitely two tokens or multiple tokens
because like the lack of a space at the
beginning changes the word, but
>> Oh, wait. That's crazy.
>> Yeah, people got to know tokenizers. Um,
um, but the whole point here is like and
and by the way, you can see how this
fundamentally changes the meaning of the
sentence to the LLM. Not to us, but to
the LM it does. It means something very
different.
And this is also going to be true for
your images. So when when you talk about
like what resolution should you use for
your image, it's not just a question of
like what resolution do I use and what's
the highest resolution I can get. You
also have to think about what is the
task I'm trying to do. If you're using a
very detail- oriented task where I have
to pull out all the pixels in it, you
might actually benefit from not just OCR
and not just like high-res images, but
breaking down your image into smaller
images that are all high-res
individually
because you might just get better
extraction out of it.
The same on the other hand, if you're
doing a bunch of summarization tasks and
you don't want details in the image like
you're doing like a um where is this?
Where's Waldo desk?
Like let's just take an image of where's
Waldo. If you're doing this kind of
task, you definitely don't want this
going in as a as a single image. Just do
where's Waldo. The LM just can't do
that. And this is equivalent to how do
you how many Rs are there in strawberry?
That's the equivalent problem I think.
But if we were to break this image down
into tons of tiny images and upscale
them, the LM is much more likely to be
able to solve. Where's Waldo?
>> It's funny. I I definitely saw this
picture before. Waldo's right there
because someone actually did the example
of passing this image into an LLM and
the LLM finding Waldo.
>> Yeah.
>> Did you see that?
>> I have no idea where Waldo is. I don't
understand this. Um but like this is
kind of what I would how I would LM and
like the Is that where it is?
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, I found him. Nice. Um yes. Um, I'm a
really shitty LM. Um,
but I think the point still stands when
you think about images linked through my
video. Just remember this whole game
that all LMs do is always tokenization.
Uh, the fact that OpenAI and everyone
else just does something with like PDFs
with OCR is like if you just go to how
they do it, I think they tell you this
um in your document, they tell you all
all sorts of things and they actually
tell you exactly what they do in the PDF
documentation. I can go find it in a
second.
Uh, OpenAI PDFs.
Is this it? Yeah. And you can just go
read this and like what you'll find is
they basically just convert the PDFs to
images and they process that in. So
they're not actually training the model
specifically in PDFs as far as I know.
um they train this they just use a they
use the multimodality capabilities of
the model and go leverage that
and uh sorry I pause I'm going to catch
my breath really fast and oops wrong
thing
>> so when it comes to extracting
transactions uh out of PDFs how would we
go about this well I think the simple
thing is let's do the very very dumb
thing I take the entire PDF I toss it to
a model it gives me the answer and then
I just say whoop I tell the user yes and
here's the answer the most comp and now
let's add a little bit more complexity
I take the PDF I toss to the model as is
and I have it instead of answering the
question I first have it extract data
based on the type of PDF that I know it
is I know it's bank transactions so what
I will do is I will extract extract all
transactions
out of this data up
and then I'll feed a different prompt
with this question and all the
transactions and then answer the model's
question. So I'm simplifying the problem
for the model and you've seen us do this
a few times with a bunch of other
problems where if the problem ends up
being too hard, break it down to two
problems and now we pass the problem
down.
This still might not be good enough
because we have a two problems. The L
might hallucinate at the point of
transactions or it might hallucinate at
this point of actually answering the
question. The harder one to correct is a
transaction on one. If we can get this
data correct, this thing will probably
work because
>> you're talking just like breaking down
the problem basically.
>> Yeah.
>> And being able to test and optimize each
F separately.
>> And then also understanding where the
failure point is. Like I bet that's like
80% correct. And I bet I'd be surprised
if LLMs given correct data are going to
be really bad at questions like what's
my ending balance,
>> right? Take, hey, here's a whole blob of
text and JSON. Find one of the values in
it. Yeah. Spit it back out to me.
>> It seems unlikely, but I think this
thing is going to fail a lot and then
because of that reason, it's going to
feel like a it's going to feel like a
Oops.
>> Oh, you leaked your trace code.
>> Oh, it's okay. I'm about to show PDF, so
it's okay. It's going to feel like this.
So, it's going to feel worse. And if the
back half is a 90%, it's going to feel
even worse. It's going to feel like a
70% pass rate. But really, the problem
is the first one as a whole is not
really good. So, if we can bump up both
of these to 95%, we'll just feel better.
So, let's try and go do that.
Well,
>> and this a really interesting concept I
think you talk about a lot but but
doesn't get like like really like
explicitly stated. Um, which is this
idea of um basically like if you have a
if you have a 75% success rate and you
run one if your pipeline has one query
then your accuracy is 75 or let's say
90, right? So like if your accuracy is
90% here.
>> Oh my god. Um,
>> I got something for you to text. You can
take a screenshot.
>> All right, just paste it in.
>> Oh, what the heck? I can't open it. Um,
yeah, I'll paste the screenshot in. I
think what you're trying to do is
somewhere in there.
is this when you have a pipeline that's
like 99% accurate and you have like 20
steps, it ends up behaving like a
pipeline that was actually like 80%
accurate.
When you have a pipeline that's 97%
accurate and you have 20 steps, it
behaves like a pipeline that's 50%
accurate.
And it's really really hard to
understand this concept. It doesn't feel
intuitive, but it falls off really
really fast.
And just like a 2% difference in your
pipeline accuracy is a 27% difference at
a 20st step mark.
And that is like not intuitive at all
for a lot of people. But this is why
agents feel like they don't work because
agents typically have multiple steps and
people are like, "What the heck? It's
not working." It's because
>> damn, this should really be the 12
factor agents presentation.
>> This is such a dope graphic. Yes, this
was what I was trying to draw.
>> Yeah, you can add a screenshot of this
if you want.
>> I did. It's on the It's on the
whiteboard. Um, so when we do this, uh,
let's see how we can make transactions
better. Well, we can make this really
good by saying that we know that LMs are
going to be, if it's extracting 50,000
things, it's going to get one of them
wrong almost definitely. It's just like
probabilities, right? It's the same
thing. Probabilities matter. If it's 99%
accurate on extracting everything and
has to extract 67 like 20 things, it's
going to behave like a thing that's 80%
accurate extracting those things.
So let's change that and say what I will
actually do is I'm going to have it
extract two things. I'm going to have it
extract the both the transactions and
the summary balance as a whole. And then
at the very end of this I won't feed
this directly into my system.
What I will do instead
is I'm going to run a different loop
that's just going to be basic math that
says does the summary
equal the sum of transactions.
>> So this is the runtime eval basically.
>> Exactly. I'm going to write a runtime
eval that validates this. If it doesn't,
I will try and find where it breaks.
Like where does it actually break? Does
it break on page one, page two, page
three, page four? And then I can send
just that page back to the model and
have it go and run in this loop until it
meets some constraint that I defined.
And even better would be if I can do
intermediate checks within each
transaction as well.
So sometimes like bank statements have
like a before and after balance for
every transaction. I can check that
balance as well.
So if that balance individually ends up
being wrong, then what I can do is I can
go to an LLM and say, "Hey, the balance
for this purchase entry seems wrong. Can
you what is the right answer?" And now
the LM is going to focus all of its
attention, even if I'm giving a bunch of
tokens only on the
>> that really really matter because LM are
pretty good at generally answering the
question that you want.
>> They're just really bad at like
answering every question correctly all
the time. that you'll be like, "Okay, I
only look at these two tokens to answer
the question about that subtransaction.
I'll answer it and we update our data
model. We run a loop and we're getting
this going." You can kind of
approximately see how this how this loop
would work and at some point two things
will happen. Either this thing will work
and I'll get things where all the
constraints are matching and then I will
send it to my prompt or it won't work in
which case maybe I'll build a human in
the loop system that sends this out to
like someone that like literally reads
these transactions manually and just
corrects the right uh corrects the right
output. I record exactly where it messed
up so I have good understandings for my
engineers to understand where the
failure points are and I send it on to
the next pipeline.
If this is a completely real-time app,
then I will literally just tell the user
that someone who finds the failures
where I can't correct for it anymore,
I'll literally just tell the user, I
found these four mistakes. Can you help
me with this? Or I'll tell the user,
sorry, I can't answer you from these
questions. I seem to be having trouble
understanding these four um these four
data points and I seem to have
mathematical errors in validating them.
So I can almost build it into my UI into
my process and in different works of the
way so that my end pipeline
it might not have 100% coverage on the
data but on for all the data it has
coverage on it will be 100% correct.
Does that kind of explain what I what
I'm saying?
This makes sense that like the human
here could either be like the builder of
the app or the user of the app and like
soliciting human input from one or the
other of those.
>> Exactly. And then we know elements are
really good at answering questions given
data. Uh the hard part is getting the
right data in there. That's all context
engineering is. So we're doing some
pre-processing to get the context
engineering data into there.
>> Okay. So in both these cases whether we
have works or not works you have
validated transaction data.
>> Exactly.
>> And basically you can have really really
high confidence if the LM's doing its
summing if it's doing all the things and
then your deterministic code is doing
all the sums and all the sums work out
you are very very confident that like
99.9% that this was extracted correctly.
>> Exactly. And it's and obviously they can
make make a mistake. The bank itself
could have typed out the wrong digit and
written out the wrong thing. Like
there's tons of mistakes that could have
happened.
>> Um it's not to say this is perfect,
>> but it's all cross-checkable and
verifiable. And I think that's as good
as you can really do.
>> Cool.
>> Um and I think this is how I think about
this. Now I'm going to talk about a lot
of techniques to make this part better
today. We're not going to talk about
this at all. I only really want to talk
about this part. And we're not even
going to talk about this eval loop. I'm
really going to focus on this one
>> because we already we already talked
about the eval loop and like we'll
>> go watch episode number five if you want
to see it. We talked about that in a lot
more detail. Like that stuff isn't going
to be that hard that it's different and
you might as well learn from there
instead. Today I really want to talk
about this image part a little bit more
details. So I'm going to start off with
just showing you how we would start with
this problem. So I tried to do
something. I started actually writing
some code. I wrote some code earlier. I
apologize. I typically try and do it
live on the fly. PDFs are funky, so I
wanted to make sure it really worked.
Um, and I wanted to make sure the data I
shared was perfectly good. So, I'm going
to start with just sharing what the data
is. Um, open on
Oh, reveal and finder. Okay. So, first
things first, this is my bank data. If
you see something that is really PII,
please tell me so I can crop it out and
make it go away. Um, I think I took out
everything that is relevant out of this,
but I do want to add a disclaimer. This
is my personal thing. Let's not um let
me get poned.
>> Yeah, please don't steal Vib's identity.
I I need him to keep doing podcast with
me.
>> Um so I took out page one that has a lot
of PII, but page two has less. Um page
three is basically just like account
transaction history. So like uh things
that were bought. Um has a bunch of
stuff on there. It's got some fun little
transactions from Canada. It's got some
transactions in Seattle. I live in
Seattle. I guess you doxed me. Um, and
then we've got some other things about
the interest payments. I don't pay
interest because interest is a scam on
credit cards. If you pay it, you [ __ ]
up. I'm sorry. And getting out of that
situation is really
>> Oh, are we going to pivot this into a
financial advice show?
>> Um, no. Just don't don't get a credit
card with interest rates. Um, and like
or don't pay interest on your credit
card. Um, but this is a PDF and I want
to call out some nuances out of this
PDF. The first thing you'll notice is
that these pages are not standard pages
at all. They're like slightly longer
than normal.
>> The second thing that you'll notice is
that these pages have headers and that
they have footers
and like that might confuse the model.
It might not. I don't really know. Um it
has these summaries, but overall it
seems to mostly be correct. It's
interesting because I don't know what
the actual dollar rate here is. Like is
this Canadian or is this USD? It should
be USD. But you can see how there's an
ambiguity here to uh anyone that's
glancing at this without knowing. It
seems that the conversion rate is
defined here.
But it's it's impossible for someone to
actively know for sure uh that is the
case unless they look at the details of
what this is doing. There's some
inferences that we're making. So I'm
going to just real quick infer just
looking out loud is you have 940*.778
and I assume that is 732. So that would
be my guess is these are USD and that
these are Canadian. But
>> you got a great example too where the
top that like last line on the page
above that like that 234 is actually the
three like that's transaction split
pages,
>> right? So we're going to run into all
sorts of problems here if we were to
transact this data out of the model.
Like I think we could all believe that
this thing might not be perfect, but
let's
>> Did you go to B?
>> I I did. Um B is awesome.
>> I went on a backpacking trip. We did
like 55 70 miles or something.
>> It was
>> Wait, that's sick. I want Let's put your
backpacking photos into the multimodal
model. See what No, I'm just kidding.
Sorry. Continue continue your live
coding.
>> They're from a time when I was less fat.
Um, but okay, so I wrote the code
already for this, but we're basically
going to have a function. It's going to
have a content. Content is going to be a
PDF type. We're going to return a
transaction array, which I've already
defined over here. It's name and amount.
Amount is a float. We're going to use a
GP4 mini model. We're going to write a
really basic prompt. Extract all the
transactions from this content. And the
content is just going to be that PDF
that I passed in. Let's look at the
prompt. That's the first thing to do.
The first prompt is just going to be a
system message as expected. Just comes
from here. And the second prompt is
going to be just a PDF. So like we have
the PDF. We can make sure that it's the
actual content that we have. Seems like
this is probably good. Let's run. Let's
run it.
It should run. And sorry I have to move
the errors.
And it's going to run and do its thing.
Sorry about the blinking. Streaming is
as it turns out partial data is very
very hard.
Um but it will become stable and it'll
go out. While this is running, let's do
the other thing and this the next part
of our task which is like understand our
data. So is this thing even um uh before
we can do anything we just have to count
how many transactions there are. If we
don't if we don't count, how can we
actually know? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
31
32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44
45 46 47 48 49 51 One, two, three, four,
54 transactions. So, at the very least,
I know I expect 54 transactions out of
this. Cool. I already know what that all
messed up. It only got at 48 items.
>> So, that's my first validation loop.
Like, it's guaranteed the page boundary.
>> I have no idea.
>> You have one that spans a page boundary.
Okay, cool.
>> We can just check, right? So, like we
just take this data out and we just look
at it. We know that the things that are
hard are this one. So, to see if we got
this one.
Uh, Blinky App QC. This is 234. It got
311. Why did it get 311? I have no idea.
It clearly just hallucinated that thing.
Uh, oh, there's two of them. Yeah, it it
just got that was just wrong. Uh,
there's
>> those ATM fees,
>> huh?
>> Are those ATM fees?
>> I have no idea.
>> I think Blinky, those are $3. I bet
that's uh
>> I have no idea. Keep going.
>> Um, Chase Travel right over here. It's
$347.90. This one pulled out correctly.
Marine Lake 732 that pulled that
correctly. It just dropped data right
here. It dropped the one at the
boundary. So, we know we at least missed
one. And I think the the first thing
that you're noticing that I'm doing here
is like I'm just understanding what the
model can and cannot do. I did the dumb
thing. I tossed it at the model. I said,
"Figure it out." Turns out the open API
spec is probably not the right way to
pass in a PDF. That's a spend bank
transaction because a naive thing
doesn't work. Well, the next thing I can
do is I can do some images. I can
convert the stuff to images myself.
Um, and then we can just go solve this
problem. Well, I think the biggest
problem that we'll run into is actually
headers and footers. So, I actually
started writing some of this code. And a
lot of people don't realize this, but
it's actually really easy to detect this
stuff. Let's think about what it means
to find headers and footers. Well, the
first thing we'll do is we'll convert
every page to a uh to an image. Once you
convert every page to an image, I'm
going to write a really really basic
prompt. And this prompt is job is only
going to be like
function has transactions
page image
right there. And that's all I'm going to
do. I'm just going to ask this. And
because this is such an easy problem,
I'm going to use a mini model for this.
I won't even think about this.
Test has transactions file uh page. And
the image I'm going to pass in, I
already have all the pages. So I will do
slash data slash
page zero.png
uh title page
transactions page one and page one.
We'll run these. And I kind of want to
run this test just to make sure model
isn't
okay. This model is dumb. So, I'm going
to use anthropic um
song.
>> Yeah, it's weird especially when you get
to like processing. I've had a lot of
issues with getting 40 and 40 mini to
process like ID cards if you want to
like test extraction on like your
passport or something. It like refuses
to do it, which makes sense. The odds
that you're doing something naughty is
pretty high if you're trying to parse an
ID. But
>> yeah, auto model.
>> Oh, I did the wrong thing.
You did a long page transactions. Oh
yeah, models don't like answering in
boolean all the time. I've noticed that.
So like
answer I usually just do this kind of
thing and that helps them all because
they hate answering with just true and
false.
>> Um
>> I actually want to make that yes or no.
And that actually usually works better.
And now it said the answer is true. And
this this makes sense because
does it make sense? This makes no sense.
What is the model doing?
Okay, it's a dumb model. Let's use
>> finance transactions.
Okay, let's try it.
>> Okay, a smarter model seems to do
better. Uh, does this page have
transactions? Does this page have uh
financial transactions for a specific
does this have
financial
specific
transactions credit debit
um type
credit debit other and I'll just make
this a array
and specifically I'll I only care about
credit or debit. So I'm actually going
to help the model do even better is like
now even the dumber models will probably
do better because it will just tell me
what type it is. So if I ask like haiku
does this have
uh page type. This is probably going to
work. uh uh
actions
cover page
non
financial.
So I'm actually going to and you're
watching me prompt him here on the fly
because what I'm really trying to do is
I'm trying to understand what this page
is doing and this page has transactions.
Cardune
does this actually I mean it might
>> I mean it has language about
transactions but it doesn't have the
transactions themselves. I would almost
say like transactions with amounts
because I don't think this has amounts
in it.
>> I mean it might I have no idea what this
page has. Yeah.
Um it does. I mean it has information
about financial transactions and does it
I mean I might I should just look at the
data really fast.
At this point like there's two things
that could go wrong.
Oh I mean it talks about payments.
How to avoid payments on interest
charge. Uh what would I call this page?
Um like a
uh what's it I'm looking for
transaction rules.
>> Let's try this.
>> But you get the point is like extracting
the data is a really like clean way to
like look inside what the LM is seeing
instead of just pushing in the image and
your prompt and being like why the [ __ ]
isn't this prompt working? Well, at this
point, I kind of solved the problem for
myself. The number of transactions is
zero. I don't even care if the number is
correct or not. It really doesn't
matter. And I run this thing and like
the number of transactions 20. It
doesn't matter. The point is what I'm
going to look for is page type
transactions and number of transactions
greater than zero is going to filter my
images for me. So for every image where
I have more than zero transactions, I'm
basically going to run a function def uh
take page
uh image
uh
what I'm going to say is I'm going to
say um B dot
don't write B yet
import B I'm just going to take the page
I'm going to say B dot
B extract transaction or has
transactions I'm going to pass in the
page I'm going to say like def res
equals this if res dot
uh page type equal equals transactions
and
uh res number of transactions equal zero
then I'll then I'll proc the image
otherwise I won't
and now what I'm able to do is I'll go
do something in this scenario otherwise
I won't really do anything down here now
get pages get data once I have all the
pages what I want to do next is I want
to detect headers and footers so how do
we do that I think that problem people
say is a very hard problem it turns out
it's really really easy all you do is
you just pick one page to be your anchor
page. In my case, I just picked like the
first page that has transactions to be
the anchor page. And I just do a diff on
it. And you can see what this does.
Let's see if I can save the diff. And uh
there's a lot of Python libraries,
typical libraries. I'll do this for you.
And you can just see what I did. I'm
able to remove the top level thing
because it all it does takes a it turns
the image from uh black um from RGB to
black and white and just paste it on top
of the other image. any place
>> and then what it zeros out any pixel
that is exactly the same between the
two.
>> That's it.
>> Sick.
>> It's really it. Um and then after you do
that, you basically find all the places
where you have diffs and it should
become almost perfectly evident where
your pages are and where you have
similarity and it becomes really really
easy to go do this. But then what you
can do is you can do the next thing
which is you can take the diffs that you
have and you can say okay let me scan
every row in the image and wherever I
have exactly the same pixels I can
assume that that is common uh common
across pages and you'll notice that I
have some stuff at the top over here
some stuff at the bottom and then I get
some stuff over here and I get some
stuff at the bottom as well
>> looks like this is mostly just whites
space that matches right
>> so exactly it matches a lot of whites
space but it's also matching top and top
and headers and And I was really
confused when I looked at this image.
Why does it match this top part of this
page but not top part of the second
page?
>> Well, it turns out when you look at the
data, you quickly realize, well, one,
this page gets ignored. It doesn't
matter. This page is our base page that
we use as our anchor.
Page two for some reason doesn't
actually have headers.
>> Huh?
>> Right.
Page three does.
And like this is like the randomness
that you deal with in the real world.
But when you deal with this problem, you
quickly realize, okay, it sounds like
while page two and page three don't have
headers, page three and four both have
headers and footers, pages that are like
page two both have footers that are
exactly the same, but the header is not
there. So the header is either exists or
it doesn't exist. So what I can do is I
can write a really really basic heristic
that says given 10 pages find the
headers and footers that are common on
them. And some pages may or may not have
a header, but once I find a common
header, I'll just take that header and
I'll just ask an LLM.
Um, is there anything but the header
missing from these from images that
don't have that header? So, I will
literally part Go ahead.
>> I've Okay, so there's a lot of stuff
happening here. I'm I've lost a little
bit track of like the steps in the order
you're doing them. And I'm wondering if
if either we can go through the code or
if you want to whiteboard a little bit
more to kind of show how all of these
different techniques like work together
and in what order and which ones are
kind of mutually exclusive versus the
ones that work together.
>> Let's do that. Let me write some uh
pseudo code. That's probably the best
way actually.
>> Cool.
>> So I'm going to start writing some
pseudo code. Um so we're going to take
this. So we're going to say def given a
bunch of pages pages with analyze pages
with transactions and this is going to
be a list of pages. What we're going to
do for every page is we're going to pick
our reference page
which is going to be image zero. We
won't we won't even think about it
anywhere else. Then for every page in
for other in um image one to on what I'm
going to do is I'm going to compare
pages to find a shared uh shared um
headers
footers.
And then after I find shared headers and
footers I'm going to say
>> what is the what is the type of shared
headers footers? uh headers, footers.
And you can think of this as basically a
list of ycoordinates.
>> The y1 y2 list,
>> right?
>> So it's a list of like vertical like
horizontal slices of the image that
contain headers and footage.
>> And this is just semantic information
that we all know in the idea of headers
and footers is like headers are
generally across the whole head and
across the whole footer. Um, and this is
semantic.
>> Um,
>> if if one if one horizontal part of the
page is header, the entire row of that
image is part of the header
>> probably. And and
>> almost always, I'm happy to assume that.
>> Yeah. And this doesn't imply in all
cases like if if people are doing messed
up things like taking pictures from
their phone of tilted bank transactions
and like uploading them like you will
run into problems. But we can detect
that by saying that we will just apply a
constraint on the system that this is
only images that we think will abide by
this rule.
So we're going to do headers and
footers. And because we're reading bank
transaction statements, we're going to
assume that most of the PDFs are coming
from PDFs directly generated by some
bank. Most of those systems will have
standardized headers or footers. So I'm
going to find the header and footer of
every page.
Um and I'll just append this into a
list.
So these are all our candidates for what
may or may not be headers and footers.
Then I'll do find best find most common
header footer
most common. I won't even do this. What
I will literally do is I'll like ask llm
which one this is and I'll give it like
a bunch of pages as an input.
>> Yep.
>> Right. So I'm not even thinking about
this in the same way as that. It's just
like ah screw it. I I could do an
algorithm, but like let's do the dumb
thing. Let's just ask an LM which of
these headers and footers makes the most
sense. And now we have our most common
header.
>> So the sorry the headers footers is a
pair of XY coordinates. Is the LM going
to be able to figure that out? Like
what?
>> Uh you'd be surprised is kind of what
I'd say. Uh but I I think it would do
fine. If that doesn't work, I'll
literally send it in the box entries of
these headers and footers with the black
area with it writing XY.
>> Okay.
>> And I'll just like fill that in myself.
>> Okay.
>> So, I'll go ahead.
>> Have you tried like compared like
Gemini's ability for like boxing things?
Because Gemini's a lot of training I
know for like bounding box detection in
this sort of like use case.
We can do bounding box detection but
like I think what I like to think about
is just like it's just good to have like
practice of tools. I think one of the
things that you'll see in a lot of our
talks is we talk about like just like
general software engineering techniques.
This is basically like a leak code
problem in the world of AI. Uh and like
this is I think for that purpose useful.
Gemini is not bad. I know a few people
use it for uh for that as well. Um
but I think it goes back to just like
knowing that your data is weird in this
scenario. I know my data is weird
because these images are just not
standard size.
So like even if it is really good, I
just want to have a deeper understanding
of where I'm messing up because like I
want to have a better audit log because
of its financial data.
Uh but I haven't actually tried Gemini
for this task. I do know that the
customer that built this pipeline is
very happy and it works really freaking
well. Uh so this idea is actually not my
own original. I am stealing it. Um, I
had some of these ideas but not all of
these ideas.
Um, but it does work.
>> It's proven. It's provably working is
what I would say. Cannot share how much
data they're processing, but it is it it
does work.
>> And this technique works in a couple of
other domains, not just healthcare, uh,
not just finance. We've seen it work in
healthcare and a few other systems as
well. But we strip out headers and
footers. Now we find out the most common
headers and footers. We literally just
like uh remove mask
uh images mask image and we pass in a
page uh most common header for page and
pages uh new image equals this and then
press. Okay. So, we we could use some
fancy algorithm to figure out which of
those x like y pairs were the most
common set and like the right overlap or
we could just ask the LLM to look at all
the all the y pairs and just be like,
okay, this is the one and we'd just
start with that and see how that see how
that performs.
>> Yeah, exactly. I'm just doing dumb
things and I think that's with LM like I
and I can also
>> Yeah, use the LM to do it and like if it
gets it 99% right then just leave it as
LLM and if it gets it 80% right like go
write the code. Fine. or or ask an
>> they both
>> That's what I mean. Yeah. Yeah. No, no
one's writing code anymore except for
you on this live stream. I assume all of
us are just shouting at shouting at uh
coding agents at this point.
>> And now we just pull out transactions.
Um right txnextend.
>> Okay.
>> And now
>> then you run your other LM call. Your LM
call that actually like pulls them out
of the image that's been kind of masked
and cleaned up.
>> Exactly. Right.
>> It's all about attention management,
right? context engineering, right?
You're just controlling which tokens go
in.
>> Literally what I'm doing, I'm literally
deliberately choosing what tokens go in
to the ultimate degree by effectively
spellchecking my images.
>> You all thought you were going to get a
break from context engineering, but it
turns out every episode of this show is
actually about context engineering.
>> Yeah. Now, the next thing that we'll run
into is that sometimes uh well,
actually, I think there are a couple
questions, so I'll just double check
really fast if there are any questions.
>> Uh, is it possible to do in context
learning with images?
Is it possible to do in context learning
with images? Um, I have no idea.
Probably. These model people are pretty
smart.
That's probably what I'd say. I don't
know that. I don't have an absolute
answer for that one.
Um,
run. Only if we use this technique, uh,
we wouldn't need human in the loop. Um,
what is most common header stored as?
Honestly, it can just be your header
type. It really doesn't matter. Um I
don't you can define header as just like
a y1 y 2 range. You can define as a
proper bounding box. You can define as
whatever you want. Uh in this case it's
going to be like two things where header
is the
>> header and then like
um header equals
this and then footer equals this. And
there's different ways that we can go
about and go do that. Um and then the
next thing that we can go do there's one
more question.
>> Yeah, one more question is good is so
yeah like we talked about doing kind of
like runtime guards and runtime evals
for like summing transactions. Do you
have any sort of like version of that
for plain text like extracting a legal
clause from a legal document?
>> It's honestly going to be really similar
to what you just saw me doing at the
very beginning of this uh system. Like
when I was playing around with this and
trying to make this work like has
transactions, it didn't actually work.
You guys all saw that in real time, it
didn't work. And you
>> you saw the prompts that I went with. I
was like, "It's not working. It's not
working." So I kept on iterating. I
tried different techniques. I said, "Let
me add a page type." Then Dexter was
like, "Try transaction with them." We
tried about 12 things to make this thing
work. And we did make it work because it
turns out the answer was I both will
require a page type and number of
transactions. and the mutex of both of
those together tells me whether or not
the answer has transactions.
>> So it's going to be the same thing with
textual data. Try and understand if you
can apply constraints and sometimes the
constraints are not as direct as you can
think of. They sometimes require you to
do two different things and being
creative with that is the real answer uh
with those things and then obviously and
pull data from other stuff as well.
um such as like if you're doing medical
data transaction like validate data
against your actual database uh and go
do it from that perspective.
Now with that I want to do the second
part is how do you do page over page
overlap because like that I think is
another big problem. Well it turns out
that's also a really easy problem. What
we do is like we we'll we'll say related
to
previous page
enumerate I equals this if I greater
than zero we'll ask we'll ask the model
this uh and we'll just ask the model
like is there is this continued from a
previous page
and we'll We'll just give it two pages.
We'll give it the
new image. What is this?
>> Mhm.
>> Previous image.
And what does it say?
Previous page over there. And we'll just
ask it to compare and just say like does
this data continue? If it does continue
what we'll say is like
oops sorry pages equals
new image
u per pages
cur ctx. So my current context is going
to be this just this page that I'm
looking at. If it does continue from my
current page I'm going to append the
previous page to it. Now I'm going to
get the context from like the uh current
context and I'm going to pass in both
pages into my transaction array. So at
any given point I'll I'll pass in both
the previous page and the current page.
Now because it's transaction data I have
another bit of knowledge that I have
which is the previous page fully doesn't
really make sense.
Um so I would literally crop this page.
Crop top half.
Uh,
>> oh, you could literally ask it to find
incomplete records and then just like
stitch those together into their own
image or something.
>> Exactly. And I'll crop 75% of the
previous page. The top 75 uh to crop the
top 75% of the previous page. And
we'll only give it the bottom 25%
and then pass that in. And now my model
will see the previous page plus the
current page. And then I'll feed that
into the model.
And now basically you're going to see
there's a continuity of the page.
>> If that doesn't work and I feel like
that's a little too tricky, I might even
stitch the page together and create a
new image that actually continues it
from that page.
>> What about the that that makes sense and
there may be more here. I'm I I'm
curious. Maybe the when I read the
question, I thought it was about the
like like overlaying the images on top
of each other and then zeroing out the
pictures that were exactly the same.
>> That's not what I meant. What I meant
about the previous pages like sometimes
data gets cut off like this thing is
here but it's also on page two.
>> Getting a model to extract data between
pages is very hard.
So the way that I would do that, Ian has
a model of that. I would literally pass
in page one and page two together to the
same prompt.
>> Yeah,
>> I'll pass in a different version of page
one, which is cropped to just the bottom
25%.
>> Along
>> um No, I mean I guess I I think Charles
question and he hits it wrong, but um it
says I feel like I missed the page
onpage overlap technique to find the
headers, footers, and common stuff.
>> Well, is that a separate image
processing library? Oh, yes. Um, for
that I use um I use just OpenCV.
Uh, and there's this thing in it that's
called and we'll push all the code live.
Uh, there's this thing in it called
image chops in the Python image library
pill. Um, and when you go do this, you
can just do a really really simple
function and you this is all chatbt
generated. You don't have to hand draw
this. It's called image difference and
just differs diffs the images for you
and it produces all this stuff
automatically.
>> So you can clean up code. Okay. And that
gives you like a pixel by piscal pixel
mask that you can then use to like
remove or or invert. Okay.
>> Yeah. And then you can find horizontal
bands. So you can find the horizontal
bands by looking at the pixels and it
literally does this code right here. It
converts it to a numpy array, finds the
array, and then goes through and does
that.
>> Gotcha. Gotcha. I wasn't sure if the LM
was doing some of that for you, but
that's awesome.
>> It's really fast and really easy. It
makes this trivial to go do. So like
detecting headers is a nonLM problem.
It's the thing I was talking about at
the beginning. Don't use an LM to do
like generate database IDs for yourself.
Probably a dumb idea. Don't use an LM to
generate common headers and footers.
Probably a dumb idea. Um especially when
it's really easy and really cheap to do
it this way.
>> Nice.
>> But uh now continuing of how we get data
across multiple pages. This is what we
do. We just take the images, we stitch
them together, we find previous pages,
uh, and then we just crop it, uh, and
then we add it to our context Nope.