Hello. Okay, so
uh we're going to talk about the OpenAI
agent SDK today. Um so I was recently
actually just trying this out and um at
first blush it was like wow, this is all
you got to do. You create a new um uh
agent. Uh you import this. This is the
TypeScript version, by the way. Um, you
give it an instruction uh and you just
run it and it goes amazing. That seems
super simple. Um, right. Their their
docs are are great. Um, they have some
good examples. Uh, their guides are
really intuitive. Uh, I actually really
love this being able to say um, you
know, how do you do tool calling? Um,
you know, they have built-in stuff. Web
search. This is amazing. a oneliner for
being able to say like, "Oh yeah, I want
my agent to go search the web." Um, and
then file search and computer use code
interpreter, right? Like you can just
like add oneliners here. Um, it's
incredible. So they also allow you to do
stuff like adding tools really easily,
uh, which have execute callbacks, so
you, you know, do whatever API calls you
want after that. Um, very intuitive,
very nice. So um
uh they can have these these multi-
aents these things called handoffs right
they talk about guard railing streaming
um pausing doing human loop interactions
um MCP right they have their own tracing
um this is all really good stuff um one
of the cool things too is that they can
integrate with thirdparty providers like
different SDKs like the Burcell AI SDK
um this is really nice because they ISDK
has their own stuff going on. Um, so
this was all really great and I and I
did a little demo and I'll I'll show you
kind of um how how it all works. Um, but
caveat uh I I kind of ran into some
stuff um kind of like when you start
iterating on a project and you were
like, "Hey, I'm ready to go to
production." Um, you know, what does
that look like and and how does that
feel from a developer experience
perspective? Um so I I uh yeah so let's
let's get started. Um so coming over
here to cursor um it's pretty easy as
you saw to uh define your your agent. Um
and the use case here that I am doing is
I want a a startup validator idea. Um, I
want and and the way that I want to do
that is to create synthetic profiles to
be able to go and ask product questions
about it and have these uh synthetic
profiles uh created by an LLM agent um
that has different backgrounds, pain
points, needs, that kind of thing. Um,
and so I want it to go out there and do
it and and you know, search the
internet, have these personas um out
actually go out and use real data from
the internet. Um and and I'm doing this
here. So um basically you can see how
easy this is. Create new agent. Um
create your prompt. Uh they have this
really nice thing for their structured
output JSON. Um caveat, you have to use
the word JSON in here. They will throw
an error if you do not. Um and then you
can see what this person schema looks
like. Right? This is just a Zod schema.
We've seen this. um we pass back a name,
age, occupation, um you know, all these
all these different things that um are
relevant. So, um so coming back here,
when we actually run it, um we want to
say, you know, generate these these
personas. Um the really nice thing about
this is you can just literally say run.
Um this is getting imported from the
aisk.
Um and this width traces is also really
nice. I'll show you this in a second. Um
what this looks like on their dashboard
to be able to group um uh agents uh
running together uh in in one section.
Um all right. So you get the final
output. This is typed um right? You get
personas and this is the odd schema. Um
and then you can just output this. So um
I'm doing a little bit extra stuff in
here yielding um intermediate uh areas
because we're doing streaming um and
things like that. So let me show you um
let's go into kind of like a iteration
loop here of what it's actually like to
do prompt engineering on here, right?
Because you know as we all know maybe we
want to add you know another thing that
says and um make sure they're not too
similar to each other, right? This is
the prompt prompt uh engineering
iteration type. So, so let's just run
this. Um, and let's say our idea is um,
uh, to have sustainable food delivery
services and we want to create five, uh,
different personas. So, okay, let's run
this. Uh, it's doing a little bit of
streaming. Uh, we can't get the exact
output because it's trying to create an
object. Um, so we actually have to wait.
We can't get that structured output
until it's actually done. So streaming
in this case um only gets you a little
bit of information. Um but here we go.
So first we get this invalid output
type. Um not super useful. Okay. So what
do I what does that mean? You know I
would imagine okay maybe it couldn't
coers it into the output type. Um we
don't get a lot of information. Uh so my
next thing would be logically let's go
check out the logs. So uh we come over
here. Um, now we're looking at the logs
for today and let's just see. Uh, you're
an expert in this. Da da da. Generate
five user user personas. Okay, great.
Okay, here's the JSON output.
Looks pretty good. Looks like some JSON.
Don't know why that's not working. Very
interesting. Okay. Um, doesn't give me
any data. How do how do I debug this?
Right. Um the other thing here is this
is where the traces come up that with
trace uh and we do grouping by uh okay
yeah okay so we get text output is this
even the same one I don't know right
this is like you can see how hard this
is to start debugging
um was this the one I actually I I don't
know. I've been like running these a
whole bunch. I can't call it. This is a
string output. Did it try to coersse
this inside the agent SDK? Right.
There's a lot of stuff in here that now
you can see, okay, well, I'm going to
try to prompt my engineer my way through
this. Um, and it's like, how do I what I
don't even know what it's failing on,
right? It didn't give me a good error.
Um, I have already kind of gone through
this and and uh fixed it. Um, so here I
kind of gave it a, you know, few shot
example, um, where it says, okay, this
is what it should look like. Here's the
example JSON format. Um, now let's do
it. Even though I would assume I
wouldn't actually have to do this
because I'm already passing in the JSON
object type. Um, I think it should do it
for me in my opinion. Um, so let's run
this one. Um, same thing. Sustainable
food service processing. still have to
wait because it's a a generic it's a
formatted output, JSON output. Um, so it
wouldn't really make sense to stream it.
Okay, sweet. Um, this is just how I've
formatted it in the CLI. Great. We did
Persona. Um, they're getting
backgrounds. Perfect. We got five of
them. Great. Love that. Okay, so now
coming back over to logs. Okay, looks
like we got a new one that came in.
It has the updated prompt.
The output looks exactly the same. Okay.
Have no idea why the other one failed.
Come back in here.
Okay. Now we have a little bit more
information here. Um,
again, the output looks fine. So, so you
can see here like it's very hard to
debug uh um which is which is very
frustrating. So, um I'm going to plug a
little bit here because uh I shall um my
own product uh which
simplifies a lot of this experience uh a
lot of like the developer loop um the
developer experience through being able
to prompt engineer yourself um through
this doing structured output streaming
structured output all these things that
are very much needed when you're
building any sort of um LM application.
So um what we're going to use here is
called BAML. Uh and so BAML is another
library uh but it's also a programming
language that allows you to build your
agents and your LM apps um uh with this
new programming language which is which
is amazing. I mean it just like works
out of the box. Uh it gives you
low-level primitives to be able to see
and and debug and be able to actually do
your prompt iteration. um inside of VS
Code right where you're living. You
don't have to jump out to a logs page.
You don't have to come back all these
things. So I'll show you a little
example of what that looks like. So
so um the difference is uh you know
defining your agent in your TypeScript
code, your Python code, whatever it is.
Um you do that here uh with the agent
SDK. With BAML
you actually have these new files uh
BAML files. So here's the exact same
prompt. Um, and so we have a generate
persona prompt. It takes in a startup
idea. It takes in the number of
personas, right? And you can see now how
much easier this is to just like look at
this is the whole prompt, right? Um, and
it there's no mixing in extra stuff.
Like I don't like the agent SDK
sometimes injects extra information that
I just, you know, don't know what
actually was showing up until I go to
their UI and look at the logs. And it's
just again the iteration loop is is very
difficult to see. So you can see here
we're going to output a persona. It's
going to have these things. We don't
need descriptions on them. You know,
we're going to let the LM course it into
that. Um and one of the really cool
things is for the other one, we had to
create an entire CLI uh that tried to
stream this output and and do all this
stuff, right? there's is like a, you
know, if you're doing a web app, if
you're doing anything else, you have to
basically create your own tooling just
to be able to test these prompts and do
iterations on them. Um, right? And it's
just like, you know, everybody's going
to have their own version of tooling and
and all these things. So, what BAML did
is they said, we're going to provide the
tooling for you. Uh, we're going to
allow you to run your own tests based
off different things. Let's say this is
um sustainable food service delivery.
and let's run this test. And so let's
see what happens here. So immediately we
get inside cursor, VS code, whatever. Um
you can see the exact prompt that we're
about to send to the LLM. Um you can
even see it in different ways. You can
look at the actual tokens that it sent.
So now you can see, hey, how much how
much am I going to be um spending here?
Um and then you can even see the raw
curl. You can copy paste this to your uh
command line and you can just like
actually run this. So there's no
obuscation of like we're adding more
stuff in there. What you see is what you
get and it's and it's very clear.
There's no magic happening behind the
scenes. So
um so yeah, so let's test this. You can
see we've injected these variables. Uh
we're going to do three profiles. Uh and
let's run it. So you see right away
we get this output right in VS Code and
you can see this it's streaming the
actual output. We don't have to wait for
the whole thing. It's already coercing
it into the correct format. It's doing
partial JSON object types. Um which is
incredible which is something that you
can't get you can't get in these other
libraries. Um, and the only reason you
can get that is because this custom
programming language we've defined, we
know the type that you're trying to
coersse it into. So, we know ahead of
time before um the LM actually spits
anything out that you're looking for
background, you're looking for name,
you're looking for age, and that's how
we can get these partial type streaming
types. Um, which is incredible. It
allows you to do all sorts of things.
Um, especially when you're doing UIs,
you can do these these streaming UI
types, which we can we can go in a
little bit later, but you can see how
easy it is. Let's say uh we wanted to
add uh let's say what do we want to add?
Cursor make something up the validation
questions. Okay, maybe they have some
stuff. Okay, so what did what did this
do? Um that's the only place we updated
it. Uh but you can see here
all it is is because we have this
context output format it just says okay
great we just added this validation
questions we didn't update the prompt we
didn't do anything let's just see what
happens
okay it's coming out it's creating
background painoints
boom validation questions incredible I
didn't have to do anything um I mean
that's that's not just the power of BML
you know it's that's also the power of
of LMS and how it can infer that okay
based off of this prompt you're also
asking for this now um so super powerful
you can see the iteration loop and how
much faster it is um and if there's if
there's an error um you you'll see it
right away there's no question of oh I
have to go over to this UI uh I have to
find the specific log output was it this
one was it this one and then you're
like, whoa, what is this prompt? It's
not formatted.
What was my where's my input? I don't I
can't differentiate between that. Okay,
great. You did JSON output, but there
was an error here. So, like like where's
my where are you going to tell me that
there was an error? I have no idea.
That's you know, and going into
production, it's like, you know, you
start seeing errors and they're not
showing up in any of these these
observability platforms. It's like, you
know, you would think that your stuff's
working perfectly fine and and yet the
user is is uh you know, seeing these
errors. So, um so the power of BAML um
you can see it here. It's amazing. Your
iteration loop is is uh super quick. Um
and and so let's let's just actually I
also created a little CLI just to do a
direct onetoone comparison. So this um
streaming output uh you can see here we
actually export these types for you. So
when you import um this the the uh the
code actually gets generated for you and
so you can see here we actually are
exporting this type this is the same
type that you defined in here this
persona. So you can see this persona has
um these same types. This is a
TypeScript type uh which now allows you
to work with um with all this stuff. So
So here's how you call the the stream
output. You say, "Hey, this is my
function. This is type safe generate
personas." Um we're passing in the idea.
We're passing in the the number, right?
Those are the two inputs uh into the the
thing. And we're going to return this
persona output. So,
so right now you can see this returns a
balance stream. Uh it's a partial
stream, right? As we were talking about
before, um you can get that like
intermediate state of the JSON object.
You don't need to wait until the entire
um stream from the LLM is done um uh
trying to parse that JSON. Uh we do that
behind the scenes on your behalf. So, so
again the normal for await loop on a
stream. Um, but you can see here the
stream is a partial of this persona. So
now we can do things in the middle of
this and yield um things like we're
processing this person. We can we can
output their name. Um, uh, processing
person. Yeah. Yeah. And so um, then we
can tell which persona it is, right? And
then at the end of it, we say, okay,
great. Now we we know we're done with
the stream. um let's get that actual
full full object back and return that.
So let's just look at that um CLI.
Same thing. Here we are. We're going to
stream this. Okay, you can immediately
see the difference. We're processing the
first person. Now we're going to process
the second one. Okay, we're getting
intermediate data uh back in between.
So, um, this is because the LM is
streaming things in different, um, and
we're getting information back, um, in
different orders, uh, that we're being
able to parse it in that partial, uh,
format. But again, perfect. So, we got
the same exact, um, information out, uh,
as we did before, but you can see here
that it it did it in a in a real
streaming way, not just a, hey, we're
looking for structured output and we
can't do it until the end of of the
thing. So, um, yeah, I think that wraps
it up. Um, the TLDDR, I think, you know,
again, the they open AI has done a great
job at simplifying how you build um,
agents. Um, but they also offuscate a
lot of stuff that once you start running
into issues and errors and you want to
do prompt uh, iteration um, you know, it
just becomes really difficult. You know,
to me, this is like the the Vzero or um
or Bolt or any of those great
prototyping tools. Um but as soon as you
get past a prototype and you want to go
to production becomes very difficult. Um
and and so you know coming back to to
BAML and some of the the pros there is
just like it gives you that
observability right next to where you're
actually coding the prompt, right? And
that's the the power um of giving you
low-level uh um uh functions and and
prototypes for for being able to to do
that. So anyway, um I'm biased uh but I
think um boundary is the the clear
winner here. So all right, thanks again