Fridays are for customers. Every Friday,
each one of us picks a task and tries to
ship it to make someone really happy.
Let's see what we got up to.
>> Thanks to the BML power user, Emil, we
now have community support for the
elixir language. We're highlighting his
repository on our official docs. Go
check it out.
Hey, dead coder. I noticed you had an
issue with PAL generator versions and
not knowing really what version you're
generating things with. So in these logs
I notice that we don't even print out
the version number that you're
generating things with. So I did just
that. So now when you generate things
now you get to see the actual CLI
version.
So Elliot has reported this bug here
where if I run the open API generator on
an existing BML project that already has
a BAML client, uh it's going to fail
saying that we have files that were not
generated by BAML. This is going to be
fixed in the next release. As you can
see here with my debug build, in the
next release it's going to work. So,
thank you for reporting that.
Did you know that you can actually embed
prompt fiddle into your blog post or
playground? Our Journey brought this to
our attention that he wanted to put it
onto a medium blog post. So, we made
this embed button where you can turn on
and off the playground, show specific
files, um, and use a link or an iframe
and embed it right into your blog post.
So, you click the link and you come
here, and this is where it'll show up
as. So, Andre, I was looking at your
issue, and you had an issue where you
couldn't have gantic PDF types. Well, I
went in and fixed that. And so, now we
can support any types, including audio
and video. and PDF as well. So if I run
this validation test, it now passes. So
it's correctly parsing out the PDF type.
Thank you.
>> All right, Anders, thank you for
reporting this issue where anyone using
the Gemini model always had to consider
using the model role versus the
assistant role. So if you were to write
go write a chat message, you used to
have to write system user and you'd get
assistant and this would not really
work. So if you're using fallbacks or
other clients, it would be really
inconvenient to swap in Gemini. We've
made this easier. Now, as you can see,
when you use the Gemini model, it swaps
the model ro even though you're using
assistant. And our docs are also updated
to show you exactly how remap role
works. And this works for any client, so
this should work long term. Thanks,
Anders.