I'm starting a public experiment where I
am going to be pushing the limits of
what is possible with AI coding
assistance building what is known as a
dark Factory. Sounds very ominous. I
know, but it is super cool. Not 100%
practical yet for production code. We'll
talk about that. That's why it's called
an experiment. But this really is a
glimpse into what is going to be
possible with our code bases at some
point thanks to AI. What we're doing
with a dark Factory is building an
entire system where we hand the reins of
a code base over to AI entirely. So, our
coding agent is going to manage the
planning, implementing, pushing all
changes and pull requests right to
production. There is no human in the
loop. And on my channel, it's funny cuz
in my bio, I've always said, "Join me as
I push the limits of what is possible
with AI." Literally ever since I started
my channel in 2024, I've had this line.
And I feel like I've done a pretty good
job living up to it over the last couple
of years. And right now is just another
example where I'm continuing to do
things that like this isn't brand new.
The dark Factory isn't brand new. But no
one's ever really run a public
experiment before, which is why I'm so
excited to start this. And so, I've
actually already done a couple of live
streams where I've been building out the
system using Arkon and Claude Code and
Minimax M2.7. I'm going to be doing a
lot more live streams as well, just
building this in public. That's part of
what makes it a public experiment. And
so, in this video, I want to talk about
the origins of the dark Factory and then
get into my architecture, exactly how
I'm building a system to make this crazy
idea at least somewhat reliable. We'll
see how the experiment goes as I build
it out. I'm going to get to the point
where this application will be deployed
to the cloud. You can visit it, try it
out yourself, and then file issues that
will automatically be handled by the
dark Factory. It's going to be a very
cool setup. I'm not done with it yet,
but I want to build in public, show you
what I'm working on, and what I have
built already. So, the term dark Factory
was actually coined over a couple of
decades ago when we first had what's
called lights out manufacturing. So,
these physical facilities where we don't
need lights because there are only
robots, right? Why should the company
pay the electric bill to keep the lights
on when there's nothing in there that
actually needs to see. We've had robots
building robots ever since around 2001.
That's what we're looking at right here.
And so, yeah, dark Factory first
actually referred to physical
facilities, and then Dan Shapiro was the
one to apply this to code bases and
generative AI. And before we get into my
whole architecture for the dark Factory,
which I think you'll find fascinating, I
do really want to cover the different
levels of using generative AI for
coding, which obviously ends in the dark
Factory. This is the ultimate use of
generative AI, completely giving the
reins of our code base over to it. So, I
want to talk about how we evolved to
this stage and kind of where we are
right now for production code, and then
where I'm going with this experiment.
love Dan's blog post here because he
gives a really good analogy comparing
the different levels of self-driving
cars to using generative AI for coding.
And so, he starts with level zero, which
he calls spicy auto complete. Not really
sure why he calls it spicy, but hey, I'm
here for it. This is where AI serves as
a reference tool or enhanced search. So,
like a smarter Stack Overflow. If you
come from an engineering background,
you've probably used Stack Overflow way
too much, and now you're using AI coding
assistants and leaning on them even
more.
But the point here is that the developer
still manually writes the code. You're
just using AI as a consultant. Like,
"Hey, how should I address this problem?
Maybe give me this function so I can
copy it into my code base." Like you did
with Stack Overflow before. And so, as
it relates to driving, you still got
your hands on the wheel, and maybe it's
so manual that it's still stick shift,
for example. I think that's what this
image is trying to convey here.
And then that brings us to level one,
the coding intern. So, now you're
starting to lean on generative AI for
the very basic things, like unimportant
or boilerplate code. So, it's akin to
having cruise control for your vehicle.
You still are controlling the direction
of the car, but at least maybe you have
the car maintaining a certain speed for
you without you having to have your foot
on the gas or the brakes. And then we go
to level two, the junior developer. So,
when you're really starting to take
advantage of AI coding assistants and
autonomous coding, this is your
introduction level, the junior
developer. So, at this point, you only
have one hand on the wheel instead of
two because you have an interactive pair
programmer partnership. You're starting
to trade off control completely to the
AI coding assistant for certain tasks.
But you're still writing some of the
code yourself. And so then, obviously,
the next evolution is getting to the
point where AI generates a majority of
the code base. And so, this is actually
where I'd recommend you to be when you
want to most reliably ship production
grade software with AI because you're
handing over the reins. But like this
picture shows with the driving analogy,
you still have your eyes on the road.
You're ready to course correct at any
point. When you really want reliable
results with coding agents, you need to
have human in the loop for reviewing
every plan and every piece of code that
is written.
So, that's what it says right here,
right? Like you are still the bottleneck
for verification before progressing. And
coding agents aren't really to the point
where we can move past this level and
not sacrifice at least some level of
reliability. And so, this is the level
that like I teach in my Agente coding
course in the Dynamis community. It's a
good place to be. But if you want to
push things further and you really have
a harness, a system built for
reliability, then you can start to move
into level four. I think this is the
year where we'll see this more
commonplace for, you know, teams that
are actually shipping production level
code. So, this is where you're building
a sort of harness for AI to run on
unattended tasks for very long periods
of time. So, when we think about
harnesses, like when I'm talking about
Tropic has open source and the Relf loop
and GSD, like all of these frameworks
that allow many different coding agent
sessions to be strung together to tackle
entire PRDs, like very large sets of
work. And so, now we actually get to
sleep at the wheel. Right? Like a lot of
people use these harnesses to have
coding agents work completely overnight
for them, and then they review things at
the end. So, the important thing here,
this is the big distinction between
level four and the dark Factory, is
we're still checking the final results
much later.
They're still going to be like, "Let's
look at that pull request and review and
test it manually before we just ship it
right to production." And so then going
into obviously now the dark Factory
level five, this is where we aren't even
reviewing the code before it goes to
production. It is a crazy idea. Even I'm
kind of uncomfortable with this myself.
Like I said, that's why I'm calling it
an experiment. But this is really
exciting. So, the engineer still manages
the goal and the system. Like I was
showing very briefly earlier, like
there's a lot of work that I'm putting
into building my system up front to
really make it so that it's following my
principles, my workflow, and my
high-level guidance. And so, we provide
our plain English descriptions of what
we want built and the rules we want it
to follow, but then the AI defines the
implementation, writes the code, tests,
fixes bugs, and ships things to
production. And continuing to just gloat
over this analogy here, we still have a
steering wheel in level four. So, even
though we're sleeping, we can wake up
and course correct if we realize that
it's totally taking us in the wrong
direction. But now with this vehicle,
which side note, I would love my vehicle
look like this someday, we don't even
have a steering wheel. Right? There's
still some kind of console here to be
able to input our own instructions, but
we don't really get the opportunity to
course correct at a micro level. So,
that is what the dark Factory is, and
that is what I am building. And like I
said earlier, even besides Dan's blog
post, the idea of a dark Factory is not
new. Strong DM is a company that went
pretty viral a couple of months ago
because they're implementing a dark
Factory to ship thousands of lines of
production code that they never write or
review. And I'll link to this blog post
in the description. It is a really
interesting read going through their
journey of getting to the point where
they now have no hand-coded software
engineering. This is the rule that they
have for their team. And so, initially,
it was just a hunch. It was an
experiment just like what I'm doing. How
far could we get without writing any
code by hand? And they didn't think they
could go very far, but they share their
journey of building a system to make
everything actually quite reliable.
That's exactly what I'm working on
myself. But the thing is, even though
they're writing a lot about it, and they
did actually open source their spec, so
you can see the spec for building the
system, they haven't open sourced it as
a public experiment like I'm doing. And
there are other companies working on
something like a dark Factory as well,
like Spotify. They have their background
coding agent. But again, nothing is open
source here. And so, there's nothing
until now where you can peer into a
system, watch it work autonomously, even
submit issues yourself to contribute to
the experiment. That's why I'm so
excited for this. Now, I know I spent a
lot of time talking about what other
people have to say about dark factories
before even showing my architecture. But
I did that very intentionally cuz it
just sets the stage so well for this
experiment that I'm running. So, you can
grasp what a dark Factory is, and then
where all the ideas are coming from that
I took a lot of inspiration from. Cuz
trust me, I did a lot of research and
planning before I did anything here. The
system has to be really good for this
experiment to succeed. That's what I'm
working my butt off on right now. So,
I'm not done building everything and
connecting all the dots, but I will link
to this repo in the description. I'm
getting pretty close to having this run
end to end. I have my Arkon workflows
built. I'll talk about Arkon in a little
bit. I have the whole tagging system set
up, and I have my machine where I'm
going to be hosting this running 24/7.
So, I'm almost there, and I'll make
another video when this is like public
public, and you can even like create
issues to contribute. But right now, I
just want to show you how the system
works at its core. So, we have the
governance layer. This is really
important. I'll talk about that, how I'm
using Archon to orchestrate the entire
flow, all the workflows, and then talk
about the loop, and even some strategies
I have for things like regression
testing. And as I explain everything
here, I'll also be going back and forth
between that diagram and the repo here,
so I can show you the actual artifacts
that I'm using and show you what it
looks like for our issues and pull
requests. And so, let's go ahead and
start with the governance layer here.
So, going back to Dan's blog post, we
have this image of the car for the Dark
Factory. The governance layer is like
the console, where we still input the
high-level instructions, like where we
want to go, i.e., what is the mission
for our code base here. So, we have our
mission marked on document. This
outlines the coding agent exactly what
we want to build, what is in scope, what
is out of scope. We have our factory
rules, which guides how we operate for
implementing and reviewing and merging.
And then also our claw.md, so we have
the global rules around our tech stack
and architecture, making sure our coding
agent has all of the context it needs
around the code base itself. So, code
base context and then dark factory
context, right? And then I guess the
mission.md is kind of both wrapped up in
one.
And this is really, really important,
cuz if we're going to give the reins
completely over to AI, but we're
expecting it to be aligned with our
mission as well, we better make sure
that we are quite specific. And so, I
don't want these files to be too large,
but I do want them to be pretty
comprehensive, outlining exactly the
kinds of issues that I would accept, how
I want to validate my pull requests,
things like that. And every single
workflow that we run to implement and
plan and validate is going to load these
three files into context. So, our system
always understands our mission and the
rules that it needs to follow. So, going
back to our repo here, I have my three
files at the root. And so, starting with
the mission.md, we start by what is the
application, which I actually haven't
explained this to you yet, but I'm
really excited not just for the Dark
Factory, but the underlying application
that we're building as well. It is going
to be an agentic application that is
rag-powered. It'll let you ask questions
to an agent that can perform rag to
search through my YouTube videos. So,
it's kind of like your own AI tutor
that's trained on my content. And like I
said, my goal is to make this a publicly
accessible application. I'll obviously
have to have some kind of rate limiting
cuz it'll use my OpenRouter API key
under the hood, but it'll be a way for
you to just ask things over my content.
I'm really excited for that. And so, we
also outline who it's for, the core
capabilities. These are the things that
are in scope. So, if I make a GitHub
issue that's related to one of these
features, that means the Dark Factory is
going to approve that issue and then
implement it through the full factory
process. And then we also have, probably
even more importantly, what is out of
scope, what the factory must never
build. And so, we're being very clear
here what the boundaries are. We don't
want our application to be completely go
off the rails with public issues that
are just totally random things. And so,
we want to specify the kinds of things
that we're not okay with, like I want
this to, at least to start, be an
agentic platform focused on my YouTube
channel, rag for my channel. So, no
support for other channels, no
non-YouTube content. I don't want to
swap the model or anything like that.
That would just break the application. I
don't want to add any kind of like
payments or subscriptions or a mobile
app, right? Like keep it simple, keep it
focused. And so, whenever we what I call
triage our issues, like figure out from
all these issues which ones we want to
address, the mission.md is going to
really give the guidance there.
And then things that the factory is not
allowed to change, like we don't want it
to, you know, for example, change its
own mission statement. So, being very
clear on that as well. And then we have
our factory rules. This is more about
how the operations work for the factory.
Like here is how we triage issues, what
it looks like with our label system that
I've created. So, we use labels for our
issues and our pull requests to really
guide the whole process.
And then also what it looks like for
implementation, things that we don't
allow, requirements that we have for
every pull request. Like I want to keep
each pull request pretty concise. That's
a really bad way to break your system is
if you allow it to create pull requests
that are thousands and thousands of
lines long. You're not going to get a
good review if you do that. Quality
gates for auto merging, things that are
mandatory for our testing, like using
browser automation tools, so we're
really testing the application as a user
would. I don't need to like go through
this entire document here, but you get
the idea of how we're just being very,
very specific for our process. And this
document's pretty long. I mean, it's 311
lines in total. So, definitely concise
enough to fit pretty neatly at the start
of the context for our coding agent, but
also it's quite comprehensive, because
if it isn't for the factory rules and
mission.md, I really have no way to
align with the Dark Factory at all. And
then last but not least, we have our
claw.md.
And so, this is more of your classic
global rules for a coding agent, you
know, your tech stack and the repository
layout, so it has sort of an index of
your code base,
you know, the commands that you have for
testing and running things and your
standards for testing, code conventions.
We got all of that in our claw.md. So,
these three files together loaded at the
start of every conversation. And now,
this is the exciting part. So, we talked
about the context loaded into every
workflow. Now, let's talk about the
workflows. This is where I use Archon.
And so, Archon is an open-source project
that I recently released. I'll link to
the introduction video right here if you
really want to dive into using it. It is
the world's first open-source harness
builder. So, you take your AI coding
process, no matter what it is, and you
can package it up into deterministic and
repeatable AI coding workflows. Very
exciting. It's a perfect fit to be the
backbone for the Dark Factory, because I
define the process, here are the steps I
want to happen for triaging issues and
implementing and validating, and I can
run them all as Archon workflows. And
so, going to the three layers here, the
harness is Archon, right? Like it is the
workflow engine. And then the coding
agent, I'm using Claude Code behind the
scenes, but the catch here is I'm not
actually using Anthropic models. I have
Claude Code routed to use MiniMax M2.7
as the model driving the entire Dark
Factory. So, Claude Code, you if you
didn't know this, you can use
environment variables to route it to
other providers, like GLM, MiniMax,
OpenRouter. I want to use M2.7,
and it's a purely economical decision,
because for the throughput that we're
going to have for this Dark Factory,
especially once I start accepting public
issues, there's no way I can use my
Anthropic subscription. I'd hit the rate
limits so quickly. So, MiniMax M2.7,
it's a pretty powerful model. It's very
cheap and fast, though. So, it's going
to allow us to run the experiment
continuously without having to throttle
after a certain number of issues every
single day. So, I will have to probably
pay a good amount in API credits to make
this work, but also Archon allows us to
specify different models for different
workflows and run things with code
instead of coding agents. So, the entire
process, I'm working on making it pretty
token efficient as well. So, I'll
actually just explain the Archon
workflows by getting right into the
factory loop here. I think this makes
the most sense. So, the entry point to
anything that we're going to work on in
the factory is a GitHub issue. Either we
are going to create a GitHub issue, or
the Dark Factory will create an issue
itself if there's a follow-up item that
it finds in its regression testing.
And then we go into the triage workflow.
This is going to run on a scheduled
basis. So, it'll look at all of the
recent issues that haven't been triaged
yet, and it'll figure out what to do
with them.
And so, I'll show you what this looks
like. If I go to the issue list here, I
have a couple of examples, just as I've
been starting to test the Dark Factory
here. And you can see that we have
factory accepted, or we have priority
low. So, like
we're assigning priority and if we're
going to address them or not during this
Archon triage workflow. And if I go to
closed, we'll see ones that are rejected
as well. And whenever it rejects one,
it's also going to put a comment here,
just letting us know like, "Hey, why are
we rejecting this in the first place?"
So, rejected as a duplicate of number
19. I know there's a lot of other
comments here as well, but that's just
because of the mess of me testing
everything right now. And this entire
triage process is run as an Archon
workflow. So, let me actually go over to
the Archon workflows and show you what
this looks like. So, within the .archon
folder, this is where we have the custom
workflows defined for Archon. And again,
check out that video that I linked to
earlier if you want to dive more into
Archon. But let me open up the triage
workflow here. So, it's pretty concise
overall. It's mostly just the scripts
that make this file long. But it is
really a three-step process. So, this
workflow starts by fetching all of the
recent issues, and it's not using an AI
agent to do this, right? Like we can
just have a bash script that pulls all
of the recent issues. Then we're going
to send that into an agent to reason
about which ones we actually want to
address based on the mission.md and
factory rules. So, we load these into
the workflow as well.
And then this is where we do the
classify step. So, I specify the model
as Sonnet, but it's actually routing to
MiniMax M2.7 under the hood. And this
command right here is just a markdown
document that goes through the process
of how to triage, and then of course,
leveraging
and then we apply our decisions. So, we
have a structured output here, where
it's going to say like, "Okay, we're
going to go with this issue for a
priority of low, this one with a
priority of medium, we're going to
reject this one." We produce that JSON,
and that's going to end up in this
decision file right here. We're going to
read through that and just have a simple
bash script that applies all of the
GitHub issues and closing things, doing
all of that deterministically. And it's
neat cuz we can also take a look in the
Arkon web UI to see what this workflow
looks like. So, we're pulling all of our
context in parallel like the mission.md
and factor rules and all the issues,
sending that into the coding agent that
reasons about which ones we should close
and which ones we should address. And
then this is the bottom step where we do
all the labeling.
And so, that's the triage workflow. It's
pretty simple, but it's really powerful
and it shows the power of Arkon
combining deterministic and
non-deterministic steps to get a single
larger job done. And then the next
workflow that we have is the one to
implement. So, for every single work
issue that we triage that we want to
address, we're going to kick off Arkon
workflows in parallel for
implementation. We don't even have to do
it sequentially cuz Arkon gives us the
work tree and isolation support so that
we can manage all of these different
implementations at the exact same time.
And this workflow is a little bit more
elaborate. I'll show you what this looks
like in the Arkon web UI here. There's a
lot of steps that we have because for
every single issue, we need to do some
research and we need to classify is this
a bug to be fixed or a new feature that
we're going to plan. So, we'll plan out
the new feature or investigate the bug
depending on what it is, then go into
the implementation, creating the pull
request, and then validating things in
parallel as well. So, pretty
comprehensive. I don't need to get into
the entire thing, but you can always
just go into the workflows folder here
and check this out cuz I'll have
everything linked in the description.
But that is our implement step. And then
I have a separate process for
validation. And I have very
intentionally created this as a separate
workflow because I want to follow the
holdout pattern from StrongDM. This is
one of the most important things for
reliability here. So, I want to touch on
this for a minute. So, one of the
biggest problems with AI right now is
sycophancy. LLMs are way too prone to
agree with our ideas even when they're
stupid. And they build up a ton of bias
for their own opinions throughout a
conversation. That is why it is so
important to have a key separation here.
One agent to do the implementation, one
to do the validation. And I go so far in
the system as to even having separate
Arkon workflows to make this distinction
very clear. We don't want any of the
bias to carry over. And so, what the
holdout pattern does is we give our
validation agent the user journey that
we either fixed or created and then the
exact diffs for the code, what was just
implemented. But we give it no context
into the development process. Any kind
of bias that it could pick up from that,
we don't even want to make that a
possibility. And so, what StrongDM says
here, going back to their article,
a test that is stored in a code base can
be lazily rewritten to match the code.
There's a lot of other problems related
to this as well. Basically, coding
agents can say things are good when they
aren't actually and they can just
rewrite tests to kind of mock success
even when there are problems they are
stuffing under the rug. And so, we're
going from just pure tests to scenarios
now to satisfaction, testing entire user
journeys and not getting tied into the
context of the implementation itself.
And so, I don't want to get super deep
into the workflow for validation here.
It's actually pretty comprehensive. We
do a lot of end-to-end testing with
browser automation so we can really test
a user journey as a user would navigate
through the site. So, there's a lot that
goes into this workflow here.
But the point is once we get done with
the validation here in this workflow, we
are theoretically confident now merge
directly into main because this is a
dark factory, there is no human approval
here. And so, now this just runs in a
continuous loop. Basically, we have a
cron job, right? We have a scheduled job
that's going to run every hour or
whatever, handle these issues. So, we
triage, implement, validate in a loop
forever and ever and ever. That is the
idea that we have with this dark
factory. And that's pretty much the
entire system. The only other thing that
I'm also working on right now that I
don't have built yet is I want to have
some like larger process that runs maybe
once a week that does regression testing
over the entire system. So, I somehow
have a document that outlines every
single user journey. Here is all the
ways we can interact with the agent and
viewing sources from the rag pipeline,
everything like that. And then it'll
create GitHub issues for anything it
finds that isn't perfect. So, that's
another part that I'm still working on
here. I'll share more on that later. But
yeah, this is my dark factory at a high
level. So, I hope you can really see the
amount of effort that I put into
building this system up until this
point. It's actually quite a bit to
explain, a little bit overwhelming, but
that's what it takes to build something
that I can trust to any extent for
taking coding agents this far with a
dark factory. So, I hope that you found
this interesting. I hope that you'll
come along with the journey with me as I
build this out. I'm going to be putting
out a lot more content and doing live
streams as well as I'm building these
workflows, connecting everything
together. Within the next week or two, I
want this up and running. So, there'll
be a full deployed application that you
can test. You can add issues yourself,
see if the dark factory will accept it.
Right now, I'm just in the middle of
getting that all hooked up. And so,
yeah, more on this coming soon. So, if
you appreciate this video and you're
looking forward to more on using AI
coding assistants and building out this
dark factory, I'd really appreciate a
like and a subscribe. And with that, I
will see you in the next video.