[music]
>> What's up engineers? Today we're going
to have some fun. On the left I have my
new fully specked out M5 MacBook Pro. On
the right I have the previous generation
fully specked out M4 Max MacBook Pro.
Today we're going to push the limits of
these devices by using some of the best
models and tooling from Apple, Google,
Alibaba, and Nvidia. I'm filming at the
perfect time here because once again the
Claude APIs are down. You know what I
wish I could do? I wish I could use
private, cheap, fast, performant, local
models right on my device. Here's
everything we're going to cover in this
video. If you want to see the insane
gains you can get from using the
dedicated MLX models specialized for
Apple hardware, definitely stick around.
Many engineers are wasting time not
using the dedicated MLX models. We're
going to look at the M5 versus the M4.
We're going to look at GGUF versus MLX
models. And if you want to see how much
Google cooked on the Gemma 4 model,
stick around as well. We're going to
compare Gemma 4 versus the Qwen 3.5
series. All of these innovations are
coming together to create
state-of-the-art model performance from
Apple, Google's Gemma 4, Nvidia
optimized models, of course the cracked
Qwen 3.5, and then we're going to
supercharge it with Apple's MLX machine
learning framework designed for Apple
silicon. This helps us push away from
our dependency on Anthropic's APIs, on
OpenAI's APIs, on any cloud provider's
APIs. It's almost a guaranteed future we
will be running powerful models on our
devices in a private, cheap, fast, and
performant way. It's only a matter of
time. But the only way to know when the
time has arrived is to prepare ahead of
time. That's what we're doing here. So
the first thing we're going to do here,
when you're running local models, is you
have to warm them up. We have our M5 on
the right, we have the M4. I want to
show you the models we're going to be
using here. So on both sides we're going
to run Jade Bench Ping, and we're going
to kick off our models on both sides. So
at the same time, we're going to run
these and we're going to compare them in
this simple first prompt test. 1 2 3.
This is what's called a cold start. The
models are not in memory yet, so both
devices are loading the models into
memory. And here we're going to show
exactly the models we're going to be
using throughout our benchmarks. But
we're going to start small, we're going
to start simple. So the first run always
takes a bit of time. You can see here my
M4 actually was able to warm up the Qwen
3.5 before the M5. There we go, there's
the M5 device. M4 just got Qwen 3.5 with
the NVFP4
format from Nvidia. M5 just completed.
Gemma 4s are complete, and then we have
the Gemma 4 MLX variant also complete.
I'm going to run this again and get
another cleaner benchmark now that these
models have warmed up. So we have that
first result on the M5. There's the
second result on the M5. There's the
third result, and we should get the
fourth result here in a second. Stats
look great, and on the right you can see
the M4 with the Qwen GGUF model 35
billion parameter is coming in as well.
So here are the key metrics we're going
to cover here. Prefill speeds. This is
the processing of the incoming prompt.
Decode. This is what people refer to as
the true tokens per second. And then the
wall. This is the thing that really
matters. Wall is the end-to-end time to
actually execute with all costs,
including the cold start, including
prefill, decode, and a couple other kind
of hidden costs of running models
locally. So this is the true time. This
is what we really, really care about.
Already you can see here on the M5
prefill and decode speeds across the
board for every single model are
generally higher. We're prefilling
faster and we're decoding faster,
resulting in faster times. We of course
can't benchmark anything meaningful
going one prompt at a time. Instead
we're going to use a live benchmarking
tool to track what's going on with each
one of these models. So over on the M4
here, you can see we're going to live
track prefill, decode, total wall clock
time, and then random access memory at
peak usage. So this is really important
because if you can't fit the model into
RAM, it just can't run. There are new
LLM innovations coming out all the time
to help with the KV cache to get some of
that hard work out of the RAM. But right
now this is how it works. So now we're
going to run five prompts increasing in
complexity. We have all of our models
aligned at the top. So let's go ahead
and kick off our first benchmark to
really compare these models side by side
by side.
>> [music]
>> We'll run these on both devices. J Bench
QG. It's Qwen versus Gemma. And this is
going to be the M4. We're going to copy
this over, and with the screen
connection feature here, jump right over
to the M5. And then we're going to kick
these both off. 1 2 3. So you can see
the available baseline memory. And now
we're going to start booting up these
models and actually executing on each
prompt. I'll share more about the
architecture of this application. The
big idea here is that you can run
benchmarks from multiple devices, and
the results are going to be streamed
right to this live interface. Open up
your new terminal on the M5, and if we
type J Ping, you'll notice on the live
bench UI ping received. Our first
benchmark just came in. On the right
we're going to have our M5 Max device,
and on the left we're going to have our
M4 device benchmarks as well. And so how
this is going to work is across these
five prompts we're going to kick off
Qwen 3.5 GGUF Nvidia optimized version
with the MLX variant, and this is the
model that Ollama announced. Ollama now
supports models that can run directly on
MLX and Apple silicon, and this is that
exact model. Gemma 4 GGUF format. But
then we also have a MLX community built
version of the Gemma 4 model that's
going to be optimized to run on Apple
silicon, and you'll see that as the
numbers come in. So right now things
look pretty close. There isn't a huge
difference between the M4 and the M5. If
we scroll down to the wall time, our M4
is actually moving a bit faster with
this Qwen 3.5 GGUF model. And so we're
kind of going back and forth a little
bit, but as these models execute the
clear advantage of the M5 Max chip is
going to emerge. Our M5 device has just
finished running all of the Qwen 3.5
GGUF formats, and now it's going to kick
off the MLX. Now this is where things
get really interesting. So the MLX
variants are going to run very, very
fast. They're going to smoke the GGUF
format.
>> [laughter]
>> And it's not really even going to be
close. You can see we already got the
second response from the M5 Max using
the Qwen 3.5 MLX variant. There's a
couple big optimizations in this thing.
First off, MLX, it's the mixture of
experts just as the GGUF format is. So
that's great, but it's also the Nvidia
optimized NVFP4.
This thing is souped up. It's quite
powerful and it's quite fast. You're
going to see this on both devices, but
you can see it especially on the M5
here. So if you look at some of the
stats, prefill speed is almost double
using the MLX variant. You can see the
M4 is also completing very, very
quickly. The difference isn't as big on
the M4 device, but it's still there. If
we check out the decode speeds, the GGUF
format on the M5 got 60 tokens per
second. Pretty good, right? Very fast.
But it's not close. The MLX Qwen 3.5
version got 118 tokens per second. You
can see that this is pretty consistent
across each one of these prompts. After
you run prefill, which is the more
variable speed, this is that initial
loading of the prompt, the decode is
very, very consistent. 118 tokens per
second for every single one of these
prompts. And so speaking of the prompts,
what are we actually running here? These
are very, very simple tasks. And so if I
just click into this, you know, the
first prompt here is explain what a hash
table is in two sentences. So just very,
very simple surface level questions.
We're not pushing the performance quite
yet. We'll do that in our future
benchmark coming up. But what we really
want to see here is what are the model
statistics on these different models on
both devices. The Gemma 4 model is
starting to run on the M5 device. This
model is really, really incredible. The
Gemma 4 GGUF model that we're running
right now. It's got about 100 tokens per
second, so it's not as fast as the MLX
variant, but the prefill speed is
faster. So in the prefill step we're
getting about 550 tokens per second, and
it's beating out in every prompt. And
now if we look side by side, right? If
we just scroll down to wall time, this
is the total time it takes to run.
Overall we're getting faster speeds out
of the M5 with some variants, right?
These are non-deterministic systems, so
you can see here the first three Qwen
3.5 GGUF runs on the M5 were quite slow,
but the MLX and the Gemma model are
much, much faster. They're getting a lot
more performance. There are a lot of
ways to measure local model performance.
The thing that matters the most is the
wall clock time. How much time did you
actually sit and wait end-to-end? You
can see something really special
happening now. The Gemma 4 MLX variant,
our last model, is blitzing through this
stuff. And that's going to lead us to
our first big takeaway here. You know,
there's a clear trend. I set these
models up in this order on purpose. If
we focus back over in the M5, the
benchmark is complete. It's run all the
models back-to-back. You'll notice here
my M4 Max MacBook Pro, the fan is on and
it's pretty heavy right now. But
throughout that whole time, the M5 Max
was relatively quiet. We're getting
really, really great prefill speeds out
of both of our Gemma models on both
devices. The blue here is our Gemma
models. If we scroll to the bottom here,
we can look at our max random access
memory, and you can see the smallest
model here we have is that Gemma 4 MLX
variant. And so this thing is compact.
It's fitting in just 16 GB of RAM. And
we can actually visualize this as well,
right? If I open up a new terminal and I
type MacMon, we're going to see a live
visual here. This is what really
matters. We have 128 GB of RAM, and
we're using about 42 right now. Looks
like things are completing, memory is
getting swapped in and out here. So, it
just completed. It just kind of dropped
down that memory back to some base
level. That looks good. Let's just
understand and internalize this first
benchmark run. Prefill speeds. What do
we see here? We see that the Qwen 3.5 GG
of model is the slowest at prefill. From
there, pretty much every model just
increases up till the GG and MLX. So,
the MLX is not prefilling as quickly as
a GG file. Now, if we take a look at the
actual prompt we're running here,
prefill speed doesn't matter a ton. Why
is that? It's because our prompts are
relatively small. But for our next
context benchmark, prefill speed becomes
very, very important because this is the
time you're waiting for the model to
actually load the prompt into its memory
and to start processing it. All of these
prompts that we just ran, very, very
simple, two, three, four sentences, and
that's it. And then we can see the
responses for each model here on the P5
deep, the final prompt, design a rate
limiter. And you can see how every model
went through that example and kind of,
you know, came up with its response. So,
fantastic. So, that's prefill speeds,
but let's look at tokens per second.
What is the pattern here? The pattern is
very, very clear. The MLX model variants
of Qwen 3.5 and Gemma 4 are extremely
fast. We're talking about 100 tokens per
second. The slowest here is the Qwen 3.5
GG of coming in at just 50 tokens per
second, which is fully usable, by the
way. Anything over 30 tokens per second,
I consider fully usable. Once you drop
below 20, I consider that the dead zone.
I just can't wait for that token speed.
Comment down below, let me know your
minimum viable speed for these models.
All right? And so, again, in our next
context benchmark, we're going to see
how the total wait time is affected by
the prompt length. This is something
that's often left out of small local
model benchmarks. The bigger that prompt
gets, the bigger the total context
that's going to run in your agent, which
will be our final benchmark, the slower
the total time is going to be because
they have to process all that context.
But you can see here, the theme is
pretty consistent. The Gemma models are
faster in general, both formats. But
when we start using the Apple silicon,
the performance goes up by quite a lot.
I mean, almost double from the Qwen 3.5
GG format. And I do think we need to
give credit to Nvidia's floating point
format here, NVFP4, but it's also due to
the MLX. Right, it's very clear that MLX
is a huge, huge, huge speed gain on the
Mac devices. So, 5 is clearly faster on
average. The slowest speed here we got
was 60 tokens per second over that 45
tokens per second wall clock time, which
is the thing that really matters. The
big takeaway here between the M4 and the
M5 is that the M5 is about 15 to 50%
faster than the M4, which is a pretty
massive jump. And we're going to see the
trend continue as we increase the
context size of the prompts that we're
executing. And then memory, pretty
simple. Gemma 4 is an incredibly packed
model, like they say it here themselves,
right? They're maximizing intelligence
per parameter, and they've definitely
accomplished that. It's great to have a
model coming out of the US that's truly
open and actually competitive with the
Qwen series and the other Chinese labs.
So, that's great to see. I don't really
discriminate at all when it comes to
where the model's coming from, but it's
great to have something from the US.
Fantastic. Let's move on to our next
benchmark. These are simple prompts.
These are a fraction of the prompts that
people are actually running now. We've
run some pretty heavy, serious prompts
with the state-of-the-art models. Let's
start to scale this up. Let's throw
harder problems at this. So, I'm going
to hit back here, and we're going to
move into our context scaling benchmark.
So, here we're just going to look at
these MLX models. The big takeaway, by
the way, from these four models is if
you're running on Apple silicon, always
find an MLX model. There's just really
no debate about this, and they're up to
twice as good as their GG counterparts.
So, this is big. This is a really
important thing to understand. If you're
on Apple silicon, use MLX. Now, whether
to use the MLX Qwen model or the Gemma
model, that's not so clear. Let's see if
we can get some more clarity out of Qwen
versus Gemma in this next benchmark. So,
let's go to our context scaling, and
let's go ahead and kick this off. So,
we're going to run just bench context,
and this is the M4. And then I'll copy
that same thing over, cross over to the
M5. So, let's go ahead and kick this off
at the same time. Here we go. 1 2 3.
>> [music]
>> And now we're going to start streaming
updates to our live bench tool from both
our M4 and our M5. Let's see how they
run. So, side by side, they're both
kicking off right now, and this is
running the graph walks benchmark. So,
this is something we looked at in last
week's video when we were talking about
Claude Mythos. Graph walk is really
interesting. The models have to perform
breadth-first search across increasing
contexts. 200 tokens here, 500 tokens
here, 1,000 tokens here. And so, we're
scaling up the prompt size. Let me be
super clear, this is the size of the
prompt. And so, here we're keeping track
of prefill, decode. You can see results
coming in already. The M5 is running
pretty steadily here, 117 tokens per
second. And then we have our total wall
clock size. So, this is the most
important thing, just how fast did that
thing run? And then we have the
accuracy. So, we're all keeping track of
the actual graph walks F1 score, higher
is better. And if we click into this, we
have an expected answer. They're
performing breadth-first search along a
graph. I'm not going to go into the
details of that too much. If you're
interested, you can check out the graph
walks code base. This is the benchmark
we looked at last week. Mythos was
performing a staggering 80% success rate
on this benchmark all the way up to a
million tokens. And so, you know, just
for comparison here, you can see our
model already made a mistake here at
just 8K tokens of context length. If you
want to get the behind-the-scenes scoop
on my take on the Mythos model, check
out last week's video where we dug into
the Mythos model and really looked
behind the curtain at what Project
Glasswing really means. Anyway, back to
local models here. So, once again, we
are seeing as these models perform
breadth-first search through
increasingly complex and longer and
longer graphs, the machines are starting
to work. I'll be quiet for a second
here, and you can just hear the M4.
Okay. So, the M4 is making some noise,
and we're even going to get my M5 fan to
really kick on here in a second. You
know, for instance, let's look at some
of the work that these have to do. You
can see some of the chain of thought
here. This is the Qwen 3.5 35 billion
parameter MLX variant, and you can see
it's thinking through, working through
the
uh traversing the nodes inside of a
graph. And you can see, you know, the
expected answer is becoming more and
more complicated. And this is just at 4K
context. It got close to the answer,
actually. Looks like it made a mistake.
So, we docked some points from that.
These devices are fully on. So, we're
making these Mac devices work all
through ultra hard to perform this work,
right? The fans are on, GPUs are
cooking, and we can go ahead and just
see that as well, MacMon here. And let's
go to the M5 MacMon as well. GPU
utilization here is quite high, almost
100% here, 55 RAM. So, we're only
running two models here, so and they're
running one at a time. Both of these
devices absolutely cooking right now.
Uh working through breadth-first search
as a language model, which is pretty
crazy. That's very precise token
reading, token traversing, and
reasoning. This only works because these
models can now think. And so, you can
see here, on 32K, both systems are now
processing that. The 32K is what I'm
seeing as the proper context limit for
these small language models. I'm talking
35 billion parameters and below. Even
with the mixture of experts running,
right? We have A4B here and A3B. These
are both the MLX variants. We are
getting that top-tier performance thanks
to the Apple silicon we're running on
here, but yeah, it's very clear that
this is a hard problem for our models,
both Qwen and, as you'll see here, Gemma
as well. But the differences are pretty
apparent here. The M5 is really chewing
through these problems relatively
quickly. And here we go. So, now we're
getting the Gemma
Gemma 4 MLX variants running here. It's
actually getting fewer tokens per
second, right? Tokens per second is not
the full story. The full story for us is
wall clock time. The Gemma model's
starting to come through here on the M5
device side. We're just focusing on the
M5 Max. You know, you can see that
accuracy is coming in nicely here as
well. The correct graph nodes are being
mentioned by both models. So, it looks
like the performance is going to be
pretty neck and neck here between Gemma
and Qwen 3.5. So, that's great to see.
You know, the devices are fully, fully
working now. Maxed GPU, the efficiency
cores, performance cores, and this new
super core is quite activated, doing a
lot of work. It's clear that the M5
doesn't need the performance core for
this work, and it's only using the super
core for this work. But what is for sure
being used is our RAM, our GPU, our
power utilization is quite high as well.
On the M5, we got 35 W, and on the M4,
we're up to 40 W. So, the M4 is doing a
lot more work here, and this is pretty
consistent. So, prefill looking good.
Prefill is the prompt processing. The M5
is nearly double the M4. Just to say it
super clearly, you know, out loud, if
you want local model performance,
upgrade from your M4, from your M3, from
your M2, from your M1, whatever you're
currently using. I have a fully maxed
out M4, and the M5 is outperforming it
by a wide margin. It especially
outperforms in prefill speed. And this
becomes very, very important as the
prompt size increases. Look at the M4,
it's still processing the 32K context
prompt. So, this is a huge graph that is
a set of nodes that our language model
has to work through, and it has to give
the correct answer to. But the Gemma 4
MLX on the M5 is just burning through
this. It just completed the 8K and and
how quickly they do that? In 13 seconds.
All right, so it's very very fast, but
you can see here something interesting.
The wall clock time, so the total time
of the Quinn models are actually
performing a bit faster here. You know,
Quinn's got a nice leg up here even
though it's a 35 billion parameter
model. Of course, this is mixture of
experts, so they're both only using
three or four billion parameters to
answer each question. Gemma models are
going to be a little bit slower here and
actually quite a bit slower if you look
at this on an average basis. We'll see
how this last 32K
>> [laughter]
>> context window prompt looks. Overall
though, performance looking really good.
They're both answering the question,
which is really important. These models
are incredible now. These local models
are doing significant challenging work.
Let's look at the 16K. So they have to
work through a very very complex set of
nodes. Looks like it's looking at 14
depths of trees in a graph. And then
here it's a little tricky, it has to
find just one answer. Just one node. MLX
got the correct answer. Gemma did not
find the correct answer. It's really
really important for these models to
think and to process properly. Looks
like our M4 just completed that huge
run. Look at this wall clock time. So
this is end-to-end time. So about 400
seconds on the M4. And my M5 took 280
seconds. Okay, so that's, you know, 40%
improvement in speed for a large prompt.
And right now the M5 is working through
that final prompt on the Gemma 4 MLX
variant. This is taking quite a bit of
time as well. I'm expecting it to come
at you know, 308 seconds or something
for the Gemma 4 26 billion parameter MLX
model. But once again, in terms of like
raw usage, the M4 is working its ass off
to compete with the M5.
And you can hear it. Pretty incredible
stuff. Again, stats, if we look at the
tokens per second, M4 versus the M5 is
getting about what is this? Maybe 15%?
No, a little bit more than 15. It looks
like 20% tokens per second, but we do
lose tokens per second here as the
prompt size goes up. So this is an
interesting observation. And it kind of
leads us to another big takeaway from
running these models side by side and
really seeing what they can do. As
prompt size increases, local model
performance goes down very very quickly.
This might sound obvious, but it's
important to realize the impacts of this
when you're expecting your local model
to do agentic work. These one-off
prompts aren't really that important
anymore. Everyone is putting language
models inside of an agent. And that
context window stacks up very very
quickly. I can almost guarantee you
every time you put up Claude Code and
you run two or three prompts, you're
already at 32K tokens. What's limiting
our models now, our local models, isn't
so much the performance because we're
doing breadth-first search on up to
32,000 tokens and getting correct
answers out of these local models. Looks
like we're breaking down here a little
bit at the 8K and 16K mark. You know,
the point here is uh performance
matters. And in our last benchmark,
we're going to look at how these models
perform inside of the Pi coding agent to
get a real like agentic view at these
models. But the bottleneck here for
local models is context window size. At
that 16K mark, we have to wait 30
seconds for a response. That's tough,
right? [laughter] In fact, it's
unusable, I would say, right? Waiting 30
seconds for a response is frankly just
unusable. Again, as a general rule,
these local models say they can handle,
you know, 250 context windows, 160K
context windows. That's all great if
you're running it on Nvidia cracked
GPUs. We are not, right? We are running
it on local hardware. And even with the
best state-of-the-art M5 Max MacBook Pro
device here, we are consuming a lot of
time when the tokens hit about, you
know, 16,000 token context window
length. Accuracy is still there. What we
do lose is these models completing in a
reasonable amount of time. Just like
large language models who say they have
a 1 million token context window, it's
really like the true context is 500K,
maybe 700K, maybe 800K. The Claude 4.6
series has been the best so far with
their true 1 million context window. For
local models, it's much much more
limited than that. We're running a lot
of like state-of-the-art game-changing
hardware and now we're getting the wrong
answer at 32K, right? This is just too
complex. Check this out. Expected answer
is all these nodes and Quinn didn't
respond. It just crapped itself. And
Gemma 4 gave an answer, but it's not
correct. So we spent all that time to
get a incorrect answer out of these
models. 32K is pushing it. 16K is it's
still viable. But again, at 16K context
window, we waited 30 seconds for an
answer. So, you know, this is going to
kind of tell a story as to what you can
actually do with these models locally.
And so now we're just waiting for my M4
to finish the final 32K long prompt
running the Gemma 4 26 billion parameter
MLX variant. And, you know, final notes
here, you can see tokens per second
looking pretty good, then going downhill
at that 8, 16, 32K mark. That is a
signal that the model is just not
processing. It's having a hard time. And
then prefill speeds kind of that same
deal on the M5 where prefill speeds are
improving as we increase the size of the
prompt. And then around 8K, 16K, we
start to hit a wall. At 32K, we really
fall off the cliff. Before I filmed this
video, I actually had an agent cut out
the 64K just because it took too much
time. If you scroll down here, you know,
280 seconds and we have 400 seconds here
and we're probably going to get like
maybe a 500 second run here out of the
Gemma model on the M4. We'll see. The M4
Max worked its butt off here and finally
completed the final graph walk at 32K
and it got the answer wrong. So again,
just reaffirming this idea that larger
context windows are really really hard
for local models to process. And really
the falloff starts at that 8K context
window length level. So if you're doing
work underneath that level, you're
probably in good shape to use a powerful
local model. Gemma 4, Quinn 3.5, they're
both equally viable if you look at the
benchmarks here in accuracy for long
context. They're both about the same.
They're going to answer right or not at
all with a slight edge to Quinn 3.5. But
you can see here wall clock time, this
benchmark took a lot longer to run. Just
really that key takeaway, context window
length is the true limitation for local
models now. It's not really performance,
right? The intelligence of these models
is great, but you can only use them up
to a certain context window length.
Otherwise, the speed just takes too
long. The wall clock time, the
end-to-end latency is just too high. The
numbers are even worse on the M4, right?
At 2K, we're already up at 30 seconds.
At 1K, we're already at that 20 second
mark and the 36 second mark. M5 running
the Quinn 3.5 MLX model, very very fast.
So we're using the best local models
with the best tooling at a decent
parameter size. So the speed is here.
This is at that 35 and the 26 billion
parameter mark. If you push the
parameter size lower, you can expect to
see your accuracy go down while you
increase your speed a little bit. For
simple problems, this is fine. But I'm
really looking at this 26, 35 billion
parameter level model to get top-tier
performance in a decent amount of time.
Let's move on to our final benchmark
here. Let's look at the Pi coding agent.
What happens when we put these models
inside of the Pi coding agent and make
them do agentic work for us. Let's find
out. All right, we're going to run
Jbench Pi M4 and we're going to take
that exact same prompt, go over to our
M5. Let's go ahead and kick this off and
let's see how our models perform inside
of an agent. This is where most agentic
work is happening. One-off prompt calls
aren't really that useful, right? We
want agents operating our software and
our products. Here we go. One, two,
three.
>> [music]
>> Unloading the models, restarting them,
and then they're going to do a quick
warm-up. And after that, we're going to
start doing agentic work. So here's what
we're looking at here with our Pi coding
agent. M5 just came in really really
fast followed by the M4. You can see our
model lineup here. We are leaving off
the Gemma 4 MLX variant due to some
configuration issues. As I mentioned,
the Claude API just went down
and I didn't want to finish the work
with GPT 5.4. We didn't get the full MLX
server up. That's some local model work
that I have to continue doing in agentic
coding tasks. What's going on here? So
we do have a correctness check here. And
we're also tracking total tokens and
total tool calls. All right, so you can
see two, two, three. Looking good so
far. We want to see these numbers be the
same on both sides. Of course, we know
that our M5 device is going to do a
little bit better here when it comes to
the raw speed and performance of this.
But you can see the correctness looking
the same on both sides, which is
fantastic. And you can see the total
tokens that our models are using to
complete the task. So input and output
tokens. So this is going to matter here
as you saw in the previous benchmark, as
tokens increase, performance goes down.
Already we're starting to see a break in
performance. M5 completing all these
tasks, 7 seconds, 10 seconds, 14
seconds. And let's go ahead and look at
some of the tasks, right? What are we
actually running? So we're starting
simple, create file hello, print hello
world, nothing else. Super super simple.
Testing file writing, testing execution.
And then our correctness test is
actually going to execute the code and
make sure that it's right. We're moving
to Fibonacci. And so just slowly scaling
up the difficulty for these models
inside of the Pi coding agent. Create a
file called fib. Here we're memoizing
with a dictionary. And then we're
printing out Fibonacci 10, which should
be 55. Easy to validate, very very easy
to scale and add complexity. So right
now we're running the Quinn 3.5. We're
going to run Quinn 3.5 MLX and then
finally Gemma 4 GGUF. So this is what
really matters now. It's can your model
run inside of an agent. Both these
models are really really great at
running inside of the agent up to a
certain context window length, okay?
Because of course, as mentioned, as that
context window increases, performance
goes down in these local models. You
know, something I'm really happy about
here with both is serious real work you
can do on your local device. These
models are great at coding, they're
great at parsing, summarizing, doing
what I like to call micro agent tasks.
I'm starting to incorporate these local
models into my pie coding agent
specifically and into skills and into
kind of sub agent processes where I can
run micro agents to do a little bit of
work in a very consolidated simple way.
Why am I doing that? I'm preparing for a
future where these local models become
more viable. If you don't understand
what these models can do now, you won't
understand the next step. And I, maybe
like you, want to have the advantages of
these local models, private, fast, zero
dependency on an outside API. We want
these properties inside of local
intelligence that we can run on our
device. I'm really, really excited for
what Apple could do next here. They've
really fallen into or fallen into a
position is
not giving them enough credit here, but
they're taking advantage of their
silicon, their chips, right? The M5
Ultra or the M6 chip running in a Mac
Mini is the next device that I'm really
waiting on, that I'm really keeping my
eye on because that is going to be the
moment. If they give you 500 GB of RAM
in one of those, we are going to have
very, very powerful local models right
on device. Truly, it's going to change
the industry. So, I'm looking forward to
that and all that to say, when that time
comes, you want to know what you can do
with these local models. You want to be
able to spin them up in micro agents and
sub agent processes. That's really the
frontier I'm looking at for local
models. What simple work can I hand off
to my local model to run very quickly,
very cheaply on my device? There's
engineering work, there's your, you
know, personal life work, and then
there's product work, right? These are
kind of three key buckets that you can
think through when you are assigning
tasks to these small models, cheap, fast
models, to workhorse models, and then to
state-of-the-art models. So, as you
would expect, our large packaging
prompt, so we're actually having the
agent build a full package or some
files, multiple writes. That's been the
right format, it has to execute
properly. For you have a bunch of pure
functions that we want them to implement
and we're using clean function syntax
here. This is going to take quite a bit
of time. What we effectively have is a
spec for our agent to work through and
build out a simple calculator app. And
this could be anything. The trick is
that we're having our agent do more
work. Look at the tool calls down here
on the M5 and on the M4. Test T1 through
T4, relatively simple, three tool calls.
But, test five and test six is requiring
our models to do 14 and 26 plus tool
calls. Okay, nice. We got 26 out of both
the Quinn 3.5 and the MLX. That's good.
You want to see these be relatively
similar. Total tokens, you can see that
used quite
>> [laughter]
>> a bit of tokens to complete. So, our
models are really, really being pushed
here. To be super clear here, these are
running one-shot prompts. We don't
actually have the full 200K inside of
the context window of the agent as it
continues to stack up its work.
Correctness is looking really good. So,
these models are actually able to
perform and to get the job done. Once
again, of course, you can see that the
M5 is quite a bit ahead uh thanks to its
lower total end-to-end agent execution
times. You can see here the M4 across
Quinn 3.5 GGUF and MLX and Gemma, you
know, 9 seconds, 10 seconds, 20 seconds,
40 seconds, 60 seconds, 160 seconds.
While the M5, 7 seconds, 10 seconds, 14
seconds, 25, 50, 180, 100, so on and so
forth. So, the M5 is the device you want
if you're doing any local model work. I
recommend you max this thing out if you
have extra cash in the bank and you
really want to understand what you can
do with local models. I would just go
all the way. I don't really think
there's a purpose in buying the lower
tier of these models unless you're
getting the base model. Just go all the
way, get all the RAM, get all the cores.
If you boot up even a 35 or a 20 billion
parameter model, you will be using a
decent chunk of your RAM and all of your
GPU when that thing executes. You know,
side note, whenever you run these
models, plug your device in. Running
this, running the fans, running the GPU,
running your cores like this saps your
power very, very quickly. So, we're
coming up to the last test here for M5.
I don't think we need to let the M4
complete. It's going to take some time
for the M4 to work through all this.
Local models can absolutely run inside
of agents now. They can do agentic work
for you. The complexity of that work is,
of course, going to be on the simpler
end for now, but you can absolutely do
useful local model work up to that 8 to
16K token level. So, really, really
impressive here. Okay, yeah, Gemma's
doing a lot of work here. It didn't
quite get the answer right. Looks like
it got 0.7 on the package generation,
but um it ran this with just five tool
calls. Moreover, I'm really impressed
with both of these models, both the
Quinn 3.5 and the Gemma model. But, a
big takeaway here is if you're on Mac
devices, find the MLX model variants.
Absolutely use the MLX model variants.
Okay, so it got the answer wrong.
>> [laughter]
>> The M4 just kind of gave up here, one
tool call, and then it just like could
not finish. But, um all benchmarks are
now complete. Yeah, you can see that
this is clearly not a legitimate result.
It tried, uh that's fine. This entire
code base is going to be available to
you. I can go ahead and just pull this
up quickly here. The structure is
relatively simple. You have four
benchmarks, including a simple mock test
YAML file benchmark. This is what
defines every single benchmark. You can
see kind of the general structure there.
Um and then inside of apps, we have the
kind of core back end, front end, the
CLI that the M4 and the M5 use to ping
messages to the server. And then we have
the actual benchmarks that execute all
of the tests. All of this is going to be
here for you uh from me as a thank you
for making it to the end of the video.
Link will be in the description for you.
This benchmark isn't perfect. There's
always something to miss when you're
creating these benchmarks, these local
benchmarks, and cloud benchmarks,
frankly. But, I think it's useful to sit
down every once in a while when there's
a stack of innovations coming out of the
local model space and just understand
what you can really do. So, feel free to
play with this, customize this, create
your own benchmarks, and, you know,
throw an agent at this, throw a
state-of-the-art agent at these
benchmarks, have them tweak it, tune it,
make it your own. Couple additional
directions I want to go here. We saw
here that, you know, the decode speeds
are really, really good on these models
up to really, really large context
windows. This means that we can push to
even larger parameter models. I'd love
to find a good 50, 60, 70 billion
parameter model to run on my M5. So,
we're going to be looking out for that.
Um I'm also going to be running a ton
more pie coding agent related
benchmarks. Uh the pie agent is just the
simplest way to customize and understand
what your agent can do. You can imagine
a fully customized uh pie agent harness
that can spec out a lot of the model
performance right inside the UI since if
you're using the pie coding agent, as
we've talked about in previous videos,
you can customize the entire agent
harness. This is a big idea in 2026,
control your agent harness to control
your results. So, I'm going to be
digging into specialized pie agent
harness variants specifically built for
SLMs. And then, you know, there's a ton
of other directions here. The Gemma 4
models can also take in images and
audio. So, that's another benchmark.
Quinn model can also take in text and
images. So, there's a lot more work to
be done here to understand what you can
really do with local models. But, when
it comes down to it, local models are
still a work in progress. For 90% of
tasks, using a model provider is the way
to go. But, this is a space I'm keeping
a sharp eye on because as soon as you
can save all the costs, all the time by
just running your model locally on your
hardware, it's going to be a massive
advantage that's going to compound very,
very quickly. Those who prepare for
local models and understand what's
possible will be the ones saving
resources. If you don't need a large
model, don't use one. This especially
matters for product engineering when you
have hundreds, thousands, and hopefully
hundreds of thousands of users hitting
your service and your models over and
over and over. The future is agentic, so
make sure that you can control the
performance, the cost, and the speed of
your models over time. And of course, as
you know, local models are going to play
a huge role in that. Comment down below,
let me know what other types of
benchmarks, what other models, what
other input types, output types you want
to see in a local model benchmark. I can
spin up my M5 and showcase what you can
do with the best Mac hardware right now.
So, feel free to comment down below.
It's clear the AI improvements are not
going to stop. In fact, they're speeding
up. That means costs go down and
performance goes up. It's only a matter
of time, you know, and I'm predicting by
the end of the year we should be able to
run a Sonnet or Opus 4.0 level model on
your device. Now, how useful it'll be
and for what use cases will depend
directly on the hardware you have
available to you and the software
improvements that come out over the
years. So, make sure you're
benchmarking, make sure you're vibe
checking these local models. So, when
they're ready, you know, and you can
start getting the privacy, speed, and
cost benefits the model providers don't
want you to have. Let me super clear,
model providers want you and I super,
super hooked on their Kool-Aid, on their
models, on everything they're building
in their agent stack. You know where to
find me every single Monday where we
focus on hands-on agentic engineering.
Stay focused and keep building.