What's up engineers? Andy Dev Dan here.
I [music] would place myself in the top
10% of engineers using agentic
technology. Where would you place
yourself? [music] Do you think you're
top 15, top 10, top five? I want to
become a top 2% [music] engineer and I
want to take you along with me. In fact,
I want you to surpass [music]
what I can do. The best way to uplevel
what you can do is to create a plan.
[music] And that's exactly what I've
done. Let me share with you my roadmap
for becoming a top 2% agentic engineer
in 2026. This is everything I'm thinking
about. This is everything that I believe
based on all the conversations, all the
work I've done over the past years. This
is what I think it looks like to become
a top 2% a Gentic engineer in 2026.
Let's first start with a couple big
announcements that are going to tie in
really well. So, first off, Gemini 3
Flash is absolutely insane. This model
should not exist. Why do I say that? Why
should this model not exist? It's
because it is a top three intelligence
model. Top five price. This hasn't
happened before, by the way. You don't
get intelligence and price. On top of
that, what else do we have? We have the
top speed. Some measurements are coming
in at 200 tokens per second. It is a
lightning fast model. Gemini 3 flash
inputs text, images, audio, video, and
PDF. And just real quick here, you can
see this in the usage numbers, right?
You have to ignore all the benchmarks,
all these auxiliary numbers at some
point and just look at the raw usage
data. If we search for Gemini 3 flash
preview, check this out on Open Router,
385% token increase usage. It's up in
13th place. I'm predicting this goes up
to the top 10, potentially even the top
five by the end of the year. So, it's a
fantastic model. I've been using this
thing alongside Opus 4.5. So, you know,
what do these releases mean for
engineers? Let's set up for 2026, right?
What do these releases mean? What's
coming next for us? All right, we have
Gemini 3 Flash, Opus 4.5, and GBG 5.2.
These are all stateofthe-art correct
models. There has never been more
opportunity for us engineers. We're
going to break down that opportunity for
2026 right now in this video. These
releases are telling us there are no
winners. And this is a great thing,
right? Competition drives innovation and
it also drives price down. That means
intelligence per token is going up. And
that means you and I, the engineer, we
can do more. Take a look at these
prices. Gemini 2.5 flash 30 cents.
Gemini 3 flash 50 cents. A lot of
engineers see a price increase here. I
see a price decrease. Why is that? It's
because Gemini 3 Flash is competing with
top state-of-the-art models. Okay,
intelligence per token has gone up. That
means cost per intelligence or cost per
token has gone down. You get more for
less. That's a big theme. Keep that in
mind as we work through this. All right,
the model ecosystem is competitive. So,
this is great. Like I mentioned, this
gives us optionality. Out of all these
things, there is one that is the most
important. What do these releases mean
for us engineers?
Models are no longer the limitation.
Tricky question for you. Do you know
what the limitation is? And this brings
us to the central thesis for my plan for
2026 for top 2% engineering. If you want
to be the very best or at least approach
the best or improve, this is what I
think you need. Andrew Carpathy calls
the next 10 years the year of agents. I
think that's right. But we need to dial
in what is 2026? What is the theme for
2026? I believe this is the year of
trust. What do I mean by that exactly?
Every one of these bets, every
prediction, every action I think top
engineers will be taking comes down to
one question. Do you trust your agents?
This is the year of trust. Do you trust
your agents? What do I mean by this?
There are powerful agentic systems,
agentic workflows, AI developer
workflows that you can build that
increases the amount of work you can
hand off to your agents. The question is
always this. Why haven't you pushed your
agents to do more? Why haven't you built
that next system? What's stopping you
from automating that task you did
yesterday? Right? And I think all of it,
and I mean all of it, boils down to one
word. You and I, we do not trust our
agents. And more specifically, this is a
gray question. It's not a yes or no
question. The true question here is how
much do you trust your agents? So, this
is why we are framing everything as the
year of trust. Let's pause for a second.
Why do we care about trust? We care
about trust because trust equals speed.
Speed equals iteration and iteration
equals impact. Think about a team you've
worked with. Think about a technology
you've used, right? I love the example
claw code running Opus 4.5. I trust that
model and that agent harness. Why?
Because I know it's going to deliver.
This gives me concrete speed. That speed
gives me iteration on the problems I'm
solving. And what does that give me? The
more iterations, the more cycles that
you get, that directly increases your
impact. All right. So why do we care
about trust? It's because it gives us
impact. So, this is why I think this
central thesis is very powerful for
thinking about how to become a top 2%
engineer in 2026. This is everything
we're going to discuss here. I'm just
going to lay it all out for you. If
you're interested in these ideas, stick
around. If you believe and you're on
board with my trust thesis, like this is
what it's all about. All right? Top 2%
engineers are going to make these bets
to effectively increase their trust. If
you don't like these ideas, if you're
not interested, do me a quick favor.
Copy that URL. uh for this video and
send it to your competition real quick.
Okay, [laughter]
so before we jump right in, let me just
say, you know, I do this every single
year. All right, in 2023, I made 24
bets, 16 were right. 2024, I made 41
bets. Tons of bets there. 36 were right.
All right, this year, as you'll see if
you stick around, I made 15 bets, 13
were right. Accuracy is going up. And
this year, I'm going to make 10 concrete
bets as you saw in the previous slide.
And we're going to see where we end up
at the end of the year. All right. You
know, a lot of new uh engineers that
watch this channel, you guys think I'm a
YouTuber. Uh I'm not. I'm an engineer
and I use this technology every single
day. I bet on it. every single video you
see every you know pattern idea model
experiment like I I'm actively doing
using and looking for the best tools for
the job of engineering right now that
tool is very clearly agents the best way
to get the largest advantage is to show
up before anyone else has even started
those who plan the future tend to create
it sometimes showing up on time is
showing up too late engineering building
businesses Because being inside of
organizations is all about information
advantages. All right? And you want the
largest advantage for the longest period
of time. The best way to do this is to
prepare for opportunity before it
presents itself so that you're ready
when it arrives. Anyway, that's my track
record. I'll leave my previous year's
prediction videos in the description if
you're interested. We're going to cover
25 at the end of this video. Let's jump
in to big bet number one. How are we
going to increase trust in our agentic
systems to become a top 2% engineer?
What would a top 2% engineer do in 2026
that others will not be? Let's start
with a spicy statement here. Anthropic
becomes a monster. I'll tie this back
into trust and agentic systems in a
moment here. But this is the first big
idea I want to talk with you about and
the first big bet I think top engineers
will make. All right, cloud code was
luck. Sonic 3.5 was luck, but everything
since then has been a masterclass in
execution. A lot of engineers don't look
beyond the models, but this company runs
on Nvidia, Google, and AWS. Okay, they
are everywhere. Cloud code unlocked
agentic coding for the masses. This is
the top agentic coding tool and there's
a reason for that. Anthropic isn't
trying to win everyone. They have been
focused on one avatar. That's you and
me. That's the engineer. That's why top
2% engineers will continue to bet on
Enthropic. I am betting on this. How
does this tie into trust? It's quite
simple, right? When you bet on one
company with the best track record for
engineers, right? The best tool calling,
the best agent harness, and consistent
execution, your agents will have the
best foundation. And that means you can
just spend less time fighting tooling
and more time shipping. And I just
really want, you know, I put together
this timeline of the insane work that
Anthropic has been doing. Let's just
take a look at some of the top events.
All right, so 2024 June, we had the
Sonic 3.5 release. Huge. One of the best
tool calling models in existence. Okay,
I think the best at the time. Fast
forward February 2025, we got Cloud 3.7
and more importantly, Claude code. This
was the first big introduction for a lot
of engineers. I'd seen it a little bit
before this, but this was the big
introduction to a gentic coding, right?
Context, model, prompt, plus tools,
right? The big three became the core
four. And then fast forward a little bit
more, we got the cloud code SDK. What
does that mean? This is custom agents.
We're going to talk about this more in a
second. Fast forward a little bit
further, we got sub agents. Okay, we got
Opus 4.1, Sonnet 45, and now we have
Opus4. Of course, we have skills. We
have a couple other really important
releases in here as well. But notice
that this is not just about the model
anymore. Okay? Like I mentioned, the
game is not just about the model harness
anymore. It's about what you and I can
do with the technology. It's about
trust. It's about scale. All right? And
a lot of these releases here really
showcase that, right? It's not just
about the model anymore. What's the
model running in? Right? Is it running
in a good harness? Is it caching the
tokens for you? Can you spin up more
compute from that one harness? Right,
sub aents. So, I just want to emphasize
this, right? It's not just about putting
out the best model anymore. It hasn't
been. And you know, Anthropic has been
the leader in this space. Let's make
that absolutely clear. For a Gentics,
for a gentic coding, for a this new
realm that I predicted would emerge
years ago called aentic engineering,
cloud code has been the leader here.
Okay, let's make that super clear. So I
think top 2% engineers are going to
continue to bet on Anthropic as the kind
of leader in the space putting out the
best tooling for this new role of
engineering. All right, let's move on.
Big bet number two in that same vein,
right? Tool calling is the opportunity.
Okay, your agents taking actions on your
behalf is the opportunity. Now this is
something really interesting. Only 15%
of output tokens are tool calls
according to Open Router. All right.
Now, I I want to concretely pull this
up. All right, this is right from their
state of AI. I've read through this and
there's a couple shocking things I want
to mention here. Okay, what one in
particular, check this graph out, right?
This is an obvious great graph.
Reasoning models now represent over half
of all language model usage. And this
makes sense, right? Uh before 01 was
released, one of the first reasoning
models on the channel, we have proof of
this. Uh we were prompt chaining, okay?
We were building our own chains of
reasoning by calling language models
over and over and over making them think
about their answer, right? The the early
versions of what agents are now, right?
Prompts in a loop. Then 01 was released
and we were right. And this turned into
a full paradigm. Okay? Now they take up
over half of all reasoning tokens. This
is fantastic, right? This makes sense.
You scale your compute to scale your
impact. Now, if we scroll down here, we
see something absolutely mind-blowing.
rise of adoption of tool calling. Only
15% of all output tokens were tool
calls. Okay, that's what this is saying.
This is tool invocations over time. Um,
do you see what I see? [laughter]
Do you smell what I smell? This is the
greatest opportunity for engineers
that's going to exist for the next year.
Okay, I don't know about you, but most
of my model usage is tool calling. It
It's raw tool calling. Why is that? It's
because tool calls is a rough proxy for
impact for actions, right? But think
about what a tool call is. It's your
agents taking real actions as you would,
right? Your agents are calling bash
commands. Your agents are reviewing your
work in the browser. They're taking
screenshots. Your agents are now running
arbitrary skills that can call any CLI
script or tool that you build up. Right?
This number is extraordinarily low.
Right? That brings me back to this
opportunity. You can roughly think of
tool calls as impact, right? This is
your agents taking actions. This is what
turns the big three into the core four.
Context, model, prompt, tools. This is
what creates agentic coding. Your agents
are not AI coding anymore. They're
agentic coding. Right? Kind of spoiling
the next bet. Custom agents with custom
tools are the best way to maximize tool
calls and impact. Okay? So I am fully
betting on if you want to be a top 2%
engineer, you will push your agents to
call longer and longer chains of tools,
therefore increasing your total impact.
Tool calling is the opportunity. All
right, that's what this is. This is also
the direct measure of how much you trust
your agents. Okay, the longer the
sequence of correct tool calls is for
whatever problem you're trying to solve,
the more trust you have in your agents.
Okay, I think boil down every bet we're
making here. Boil down everything top 2%
engineers will be doing. It comes down
to this. How long can you let your
agents go? One to many agents, right?
How long can they go before making a
mistake that you have to correct? This
is what I mean when I say trust. Okay.
So then the question becomes, what's the
best way to increase your chance of your
agents calling the right long sequence
of tools? Yes, of course, the model
plays a big role in in that, right? This
is why there are specific models that
consistently hit the top of the
leaderboard. And we can see this, right?
Again, shout out to the open router
state of AI post. Top 10 mostused models
that call the tool. Notice the trend
here, right? It started out with GPT40
mini in the beginning of the year and
then guess which models took over pink
anthropic claw 3.7 and then all of a
sudden Clawude 4 sonnet in blue here
just annihilated this right it took over
the entire market okay and then guess
what happened once again what what what
is this model claude 4.5 and we know
that claude opus is now emerging as the
top best model for long sequences of
tool calls this chart tells is a very
important deep story. Again, as I
mentioned in the first prediction,
Enthropic is creating the best models,
the best tooling for long chains of tool
calls. And that ties right into our
second big bet. Tool calling is the
opportunity. Okay, let's make this super
clear. You know, when everyone talks
about agents, this is what they're
talking about. Reliable long chains of
tool calls. You know, the model is
important, but what comes next? What is
the next most important thing? Again, I
talk about this on the channel all the
time. Everything is the core four. What
puts together the core four? Of course,
your own custom agents. I'm betting big
on custom agents above all. Would you
believe a custom agent with 50 lines of
code, three tools, and a 150 line system
prompt could completely automate a
massive problem you face every day?
Would you believe it if I told you that?
Now, I hope you do because this is true.
I have built these, okay? And I'll be
sharing more of them on the channel, of
course, over 2026. Be sure to like and
comment so the algorithm knows that
you're interested. But this is a real
thing. And this is the value proposition
of custom agents. Why are they so
important? Custom agents solve custom
problems. And custom problems make you a
ton of money. Okay? This is what
this is what engineering is all about,
right? You you you build custom
solutions to solve custom problems that
someone's willing to pay for. Okay. And
custom agents give you that exactly.
They unlock that opportunity with
compute, with prompts, with agents.
Okay. Using agent coding tools is table
stakes now for engineers, right? The
next step up is learning to build custom
agents with some agent SDK. Okay? Every
big AI lab has an agent SDK. Pick one,
lock it in, use it. I use two in
particular. The first one is, of course,
the Clawed Asian SDK. The second we'll
talk about later in the future on the
channel. Top 2% engineers will spend a
ton of time building custom agents. You
know, out of all the things we're going
to talk about here, all the big bets I
believe top 2% engineers are going to
make, I think this is the most important
one. Custom agents above all. All right.
Why? It's because one well-crafted agent
can replace thousands of hours of manual
work. Let me be super clear about this.
Right now, there is a custom agent
running doing someone's job better than
they can. Okay? And it is 50 lines of
code, three tools, and maybe 150 line
system prompt. All right? Now, the trick
is, and we talk about this on the
channel, can you build this? Do you know
what it takes to build this? Can you
prompt engineer? Can you context
engineer? Do you know the right model at
the cheapest price that can let you
build this agent that solves hundreds of
hours of work? All right. When you
fine-tune an agent to solve one problem
extraordinarily well, your trust in that
agent skyrockets. It all comes back to
trust. Okay. The the foundational
problem, right? The limitation is not
the model. It's not the agent, right?
The the capability is all there. It is
our ability to build the right thing to
put together the right context model
prompt tools in our agent to increase
the trust we have in the tools. Okay,
it's all about trust. Now, with that
being said, there are limits to this.
There are limits to what you can do with
a single agent. So, guess what you can
do? You already know what I'm going to
say. The big trend we've been talking
about on the channel, we've explored
this. We have working versions of this
in Agentic Horizon, right? Multi- aent
orchestration. This is the new pattern
that I'm betting big on and I think
other top engineers are looking at this
too as the next frontier in 2026. Multi-
aent orchestration. All right. So in
2023 I said one prompt is not enough.
This is before we had any of the clawed
models. This is before we had claude
code. This is before reasoning. Soon
after 01 was released and prompt
chaining aka reasoning became the
standard. So we were right about that.
All right. We saw this trend coming from
miles away.
Now, here's the update. One agent is not
enough. Stop running a single cloud code
instance. Start running 3, 5, 10,
hundreds. Multi- aent orchestration is
the next big trend. This is what's going
to happen next. I'm betting on this. All
right. It's it's for this reason, right?
Tell me who wins. A senior engineer with
one agent or the top 2% running 10
agents. Assuming we're doing legitimate
work with each agent, tell me which
engineer wins. Of course, this is a
stupid question. The engineer with 10
agents wins. Stack that up over a week,
month, and a year. And we're talking
magnitudes of of gapping, [laughter]
you know, of of diffing. We're talking a
difference of magnitudes in the output
from these engineers. Okay? And and this
goes crazy once you start adding time as
as the variable, right? Weeks, months,
quarters, years. Okay, so the trust here
is simple and we've explored these
patterns in tactical agent coding. This
is one of the central thesis of of that
course. More agents gives you more
verification and that gives you more
trust. Right? What one planner or
reviewer will miss three will find.
Okay? Then you can use powerful
techniques like cross validation through
multiple agents to directly increase
your agentic output to directly increase
the trust of your agents. Okay. So
multi-agent orchestration is the next
big trend. For instance, running cloud
code with sub aents. Why was that
release so important? It's because this
was the first look at orchestrating
multiple agents through an agent. Okay?
Because as I've mentioned before on the
channel, you prompt your primary agent
and your primary agent prompts your sub
agents. This is in fact the beginning of
multi- aent orchestration. So we saw
that all the way back here and in
between July and you know the new year
in tactical agent coding and agent
horizon I've shared private versions of
that future right of multi- aent
orchestration. So, this is a big trend.
As you start scaling up your agents, you
quickly run into problems with where do
you put them? Like, what is the proper
space to place your agents? Are are you
really letting them all run rampant on
your computer? A lot of vibe coders are
figuring out that's how you delete your
device, right? And a lot of, you know,
legitimate mid senior plus level
engineers, you know, that there is just
not there's not enough tooling and
safety and and proper scale to place
this many agents right on your device.
And and to be clear, you can do that. I
I do do that. But you have to be very
careful about that. And we can do much
better, right? Where should all these
agents run? They should run in, of
course, agent sandboxes. Okay? Let your
agent run rampid in its own computer.
The top state-of-the-art models by the
big labs can do this. Now, okay, how
does this tie to trust? High trust
agentic engineering sometimes just means
having a space where even if everything
goes wrong, it doesn't matter. Scrap all
of language models. Scrap every agent
you've ever seen. Forget about the
generative AI revolution. Go back to
foundational engineering. This is what
the dev box is, right? This is what the
staging environment is. We're just
preparing and we're building systems of
trust that if something goes wrong here,
it doesn't matter. Only production
matters, right? So, give your agents
their own staging environment, right?
And really, this is a development
environment for each agent. Okay? Your
agents can run in their own computer,
their own sandboxes. And this directly
relates to trust because we just defer
it. I want to solve this bug. Great. I'm
going to spin up 10 agents in their own
computer. Everyone gets a shot at this.
And you don't care about any one of them
except the winner. You defer trust.
Okay. Let the agent prove themselves.
This is the best of end pattern we've
talked about on the channel. This is
what you can use for both green field
and brownfield code bases. All right.
Top 2% engineers will parallelize,
scale, and isolate green field and
brownfield codebases in agent sandboxes.
Let the agent run everything end to end.
This will help you scale your impact and
just straight up defer the trust
entirely until you need it. Right? We're
basically lazy loading the result. Lazy
loading trust in that agent sandbox.
Right? when they've completed the work,
they've exposed the, you know, port or
the result you're looking for for that
training run or for that UI change,
whatever type of work you're doing. You
just pull the result down or you, you
know, this is another uh kind of angle
on this, or you go into their machine
and you look at the result, you see if
you like it, and then finally you put up
that PR or you say, "Go ahead and merge
it." Right? Sandboxes let you defer
trust. Okay? You don't need it until the
very end when you're merging back to
main. We're just scaling up what our
agents can do, right? This is how you
would onboard and and you know train a
new engineer on your team to operate.
You get your own development
environment. Here's how you can run
everything. It's a safe place. We're now
giving our agents that capability
because guess what? No surprise to us on
the channel. Our agents are becoming
more and more capable. All right, big
bet number six. Inloop versus outloop.
What does this mean? Outloop is where
you prompt through some external system,
right? Slack, Discord, GitHub, or your
own personal system. Hint, hint, wink,
wink. And you let your agentic coding
system handle the work. And then they
submit a PR or they deliver some
concrete result for you, right? Maybe
it's a new mock codebase, a prototype, a
UI, or most commonly a PR, right? A pull
request. And then we have inloop agent
decoding. So we have outloop agent
decoding and nloop. So inloop is what
most engineers are doing. Usually
terminalbased agent decoding where you
babysit your agent and worked one prompt
at a time prompting back and forth and
back and forth. Now this is super
powerful but I can guarantee you there
are tasks you are doing that you do not
need to be doing. Top 2% engineers in
2026 will have both systems
progressively offloading more tasks into
their outloop agent decoding system.
Okay, this is a massive topic of
conversation inside of tactical agent
decoding. That's my take on how to build
the best systems with agents. In that
course, we hint at a lot of the upcoming
trends in 2026. We get ahead of all of
them. If you want an advantage, check
that out. Link in the description. So,
the idea here is that you'll gradually
build trust in your Outlook system and
you'll hand off more work to your team
of agents that have, you know, more
agents, different task types, more AI
developer workflows, ADWs. And as your
trust grows, you offload more work here.
Okay? This frees up your inloop agent
coding right when you're spending your
precious engineering time and resources
in the terminal or in whatever you know
tool you like to to use. This frees up
your time to really dial into the most
important work. All right. And the goal
here is quite simple. You want to
maximize the number of tasks your
outloop agent coding system is doing and
minimize the end loop. Now many
engineers know by this point there are
tons of cloud tools that can help you do
this. That is a great place to start.
It's not a great place to end. You don't
want an external service operating and
owning the most important resource an
engineer has, their product, their tool,
their core source code, right? You want
to have your own agentic system, your
own agentic ring around your codebase
that operates it for you better than any
cloud tool can. Okay, this is the
central idea inside of tactical agentic
coding. Again, link in the description
if you're interested in checking that
out. Big bet number seven, Agentic
Coding 2.0. Last year I made a bet that
we would see a new paradigm emerge. In
2024, AI coding emerged. We were using
tools like Klein, like Ader. We were
just writing code, right? Context model
prompt big three. In 2025, cloud code
brought us a gentic coding agents that
can engineer. They're calling tools,
right? Again, this is the core four
context, model, prompt, tool. Everything
is that. I'm going to say that over and
over again on the channel so it's
crystal clear to you. I don't want you
to get baited [laughter] by any, you
know, feature coming out by any lab or,
you know, tool. If you understand that
fundamental truth that everything is
just the core 4, you will be able to
build and operate at the highest
possible level. All right. Now, I'm
predicting in 2026, top 2% engineers
will push into the next frontier, the
next level of agent coding. I'm calling
it agent coding 2.0. You can call it
whatever you want, but the idea here
ties right into our multi- aent
orchestration. Agents that conduct
agents. The idea is very simple. You are
now talking to your lead agent. Your
lead agent is then spinning up the right
agent for the job, right? Multi- aent
orchestration. This is not
parallelization. Let's be super clear.
That's a part of it. But this is true
orchestration. Okay? You have a lead
agent that can delegate, monitor, and
coordinate. I call them command level
agents, but worker agents is another
term. You can call these whatever you
want, but your lower level agents. If
you're in the cloud code ecosystem right
now, these are just called sub agents.
This is a great place to start, but
there's more work that needs to be done
on the coordination level and the
specialization of your lead agent,
understanding that it can effectively
crud and spawn and delete other agents.
All right, so your orchestrator plans,
spawns, reviews, and ships. Okay. And
this is interesting cuz once again,
we're seeing this trend where we move up
the stack. Again, we're not even the
lead engineer. We're the executive,
right? Because we're just talking to
that lead engineer that runs the
engineering team. Okay? And we're
prompting them and they're taking care
of the rest. Very interesting paradigm.
Okay? So, I'm betting on this. Why is
that? It's for the same reason that
multi-agent orchestration is so
powerful. More agents gives you more
compute, gives you more trust. Your lead
agent understands it, can control other
agents. doesn't solve your problem. You
stop talking to individual agents and
start talking to your lead agent that
conducts the orchestra. You trust the
conductor will deliver the job for you,
right? You trust the system that you've
built. And again, this really hints on
multiple ideas we've been building up
to. Right? Now, we have tool calling on
top of custom agents on top of
multi-agent orchestration on top of our
outloop systems and our inloop systems
when we need to jump in. Right? all
going to turn into this big this big
system, right? Some some like to call
this the swarm. I don't think it's going
to be that big or that, you know, novel.
I think it's just going to be this
pattern. You lead agent command level
agents. Okay? And you might think that
it's just a primary agent and sub
agents. But that's not it. It's agent
orchestration. You need to teach this
agent inside of Agentic Horizon. In that
multi- aent system, the orchestrator
agent aka the lead agent, it itself is
in fact a custom agent, which just hints
at again why custom agents are so
powerful. You can build any type of
agent to solve any problem through tool
calling. All right, let's move on. Big
bet number eight, benchmark breakdown.
So, here is a super super mega benchmark
that proves that the model is the best
at everything. [laughter]
And you can see all the models are at
100%. This is in the future, okay? This
is going to happen. And you know, this
isn't the bet itself, right? The bet
here is that public benchmarks get
saturated. Every model hits 90 to 100%.
They no longer truly give you or I
signal. The models don't prove
themselves on these benchmarks. They
prove themselves to you doing legitimate
engineering work or solving whatever
problem your user has that you solve for
them. All right. So, what are top
engineers doing here? They're going to
build private evaluation systems that
will never become public. Okay? And a
lot of companies, a lot of labs, they
already do this, right? There are
benchmarks they will never share. And
this gives them a massive edge. And so I
think if you're building a company, if
you're building custom agents that
actually matter, that do real userf
facing work, you will measure it
yourself. Not what others tell you, not
what any other benchmark says. you know,
there is very likely a model out there
right now that can do the job of a
custom agent that you're running and you
just have no idea because you do not
have benchmark. So, this is harder.
You're likely paying more for an
expensive model, but also it means that
when a new model comes out that you
should use to get incredible results for
your users, you won't even know it's
there because you have no evaluations.
You have no private benchmarks. The big
bet here is quite simple. It's a
continuation bet that top engineers will
always have private benchmarks to
measure the models for the use case they
care about. Moving on, UIs versus
agents. This is super interesting. Um,
I'm betting that agents are eating SAS.
And I think we're already starting to
see this. Every software as a service
company that doesn't start eating
themselves with agents will be eaten by
a agent focused, agent forward tool.
Okay? And we see this at large with
Google. The Google search bar is a
simple kind of really clear example. Why
would I search and get a list of 10
items when my agent can do this at
absurd scale and speed? So top engineers
will realize agents are the interface.
Many UIs become prompt interfaces that
will look like chatbt. I don't like how
overused the chat interface is. I've
been saying this for over a year. I
would love to see new UI patterns emerge
and I think this bet plays on that.
Okay, a lot of the best UIs are going to
run doubledigit number of agents behind
the scenes to accomplish highly specific
tasks better than any raw deterministic
code could. Top 2% engineers are going
to stop using these slow SAS
applications where you have to click
through these slow UIs to do one thing
that ultimately is just crud on top of a
database. Okay, top engineers are going
to take agents and just build the
minimum tooling. Not even an MCP server,
right? They're going to take tools from
the MCP server, chop them down, and
optimize tool calling so that they get
full control over interacting with that
service at light speeded. And then you
can push that idea into products. Why do
I have to operate this UI? Why can't I
just ask my computer what I want to
accomplish? And that is the UI. Okay.
So, I think we're going to see this
interesting UI versus agents battle
happen in 2026 and top engineers will be
on the side of the agents, right?
Because that gives you once again trust,
speed, iteration, and impact right
inside the UI. Okay, so that's the idea
there. And let's move on to our final
bet here. I believe that the AGI hype
dies. Okay, and we start really locking
into just the thing that matters, which
is agents. Okay, as mentioned in the
beginning, you know, Andrew Karpathy, he
says, "This is the decade of agents." I
completely agree with that. I think
agents are the gift and frankly one of
the final stages of language models.
Now, not to say that there aren't more
compositions to be had, but this whole
AGI ASI stuff, they're not even close.
It's one of the greatest marketing
schemes of all time. I am a massive bear
on this. I I have never cared about this
stuff. It's interesting. It's novel. It
sells very well, right? It it shows up
in headlines really well. But time and
time again, we've seen that this is just
factually untrue and it's been used as a
marketing scheme. Top 2% engineers stop
caring about AGI promises and just lock
into delivering maximum value with
agents. Okay, let's just kill the AGI
hype, right? Let's let's focus on
performing and controlling the things
that we can, which is the best tool of
engineering, agents. Okay, um I'm just
fully sick of this. [laughter] So, and
so I'm betting that other engineers are
really catching on to this and and we'll
just stop caring, right? Like I I don't
respond to, in fact, I'm detracted from,
you know, this AGI ASI hype and talk and
it's a great north star for the deep
researchers inside of these AI labs, but
for everyone else, it's a complete waste
of time. It's vaporware. Okay, let's
focus on shipping useful software. All
right. So, for everyone that made it
here, um, you know, I know this is like
kind of a deep presentational video with
a lot of like conceptual ideas that if
you're not engineering with this stuff,
probably doesn't make any sense, but um,
I have a bonus bet for you here, right?
Number 11. So, this is a hidden bet. If
you just skip through this video, I'm
hoping that you miss this, right? I I I
really want to reward engineers that are
really committed and in planning for
themselves in the future and you want
to, you know, see what other engineers
are planning to improve what they can
do. That's what this is all about,
right? Top 2%, top five, top 10,
whatever you want to, however you want
to frame that, right? I think top 2% is
a great number. That's the elite of the
elite. And then we can go from there,
right? Big bet number 11. We see the
first endtoend agentic engineers emerge.
Now, this is a super edge bet. I'm
probably going to get this wrong, but
I'm betting on this. We're going to see
the first engineer write a blog post
that builds a complete system that
builds the system. So, so this is this
is the this is a central idea we talk
about in tactical agents coding, right?
You you don't want to focus on building
the application anymore. You want to
focus on building the system that builds
the system, right? The system of agents
that does the work for you. So, here's
what we're going to see. the first blog
post where an engineer shares, you know,
some details about their chain of agents
that ship an entire feature end to end.
And I'm talking end to end, prompt to
production, no review, no human in the
loop. This is going to be the pure polar
opposite of those stupid outdated why
can't AI engineer blogs and just like
the the anti- AI crew and engineers who
are just going to get smoked every
single day moving forward from now,
right? And they already have been,
frankly. So end to end agentic engineers
start to emerge. It's going to freak
people out. But you know you and I and
longtime viewers of the channel we've
seen this coming right. In fact once
again it it is inside tactical agent
coding. This is an idea we talk about in
some of the final lessons. This is
coming to engineering. Okay. And in that
framing of trust if you think about it
this is the highest possible level of
trust we can have in our agents. This is
the north star for trusting your agents.
Okay. And in a lot of ways, this is the
endgame of agentic engineering. It's
full autonomy, prompt to production, no
human in the loop. The ultimate
expression of trust in your systems.
Just like, you know, when your manager
hands off a feature, a a road map to the
team and then they just disappear.
They know the best teams always ship.
Those are the big bets. Okay. So, this
is the year of trust. Everything I'm
doing and everything that I believe top
2% engineers will be doing is centered
around increasing the trust they have in
their agentic systems. Right? All the
way from betting on the right labs,
increasing their tool calling, building
out custom agents to solve custom
problems to make a custom [laughter]
custom ton of money, right? And
then you start scaling that up. you
start building out an orchestration
agent that can then drive these results
that you're looking for. All right, once
you have multi- aent orchestration,
you're going to want to put all of your
agents somewhere safe where you don't
have to care about when things go wrong
until you want to pick that result,
right? Best of N. You're not going to
want to sit in the terminal all the
time. It's too slow and there are
problems you just don't need to solve in
the loop, prompting back and forth,
babysitting your agent. This is why
you're going to want to build up an
outloop system. All right. I think when
you put together these previous five
points, you get agentic coding 2.0. You
get to talk to a lead engineer that
understands your problem, your codebase,
everything you're trying to do with a
bunch of experts aiding it. And then
that agent spins up the right command
level agents, right? The right
specialized agent with their own system
prompt, right? their own specific
playbook on how they should best plan,
build, review, test, and document that
specific work, right? That all happens
in a brand new agent coding 2.0 user
interface, uh, application, product. I'm
not sure what this looks like, but I'm
predicting this emerges. We have you
prompting a lead agent and the lead
agent commanding one or more agents to
accomplish the work, specializing every
agent down to the system prompt, down to
the user prompt. All right, we we're
going to have a benchmark breakdown. Top
engineers in this year of trust, the
trust disappears [laughter]
in these public benchmarks. I think
we're already starting to see this. Top
engineers just like you and I I have
this experience, too. I look at some of
these benchmarks and I go, great. Uh,
you know, I'm going to block out some
time. I'm going to run some benchmarks
I've created and I'm going to really get
a feel for this for use cases I care
about. All right, we're going to see UI
versus agents. Agents are going to eat
up UIs. You're going to eat up SAS
applications. If your application is
just a UI on the database, expect it to
be cooked. So, start building agents on
top of it to automatically and
agentically operate that database for
you and for your users. And you know,
number 10, AGI hype dies. We lose trust
in these labs selling this vision of AGI
and ASI and we just focus on shipping.
Okay, so here's what I'm betting my
time, money, and compute on. I would
love to know what is your plan for 2026.
What do you agree with? What do you
disagree with? Comment down below and
let me know. Quickly taking a look at
the 2025 prediction. So, you know,
here's all the the 15 bets I made. Um,
AI coding becomes a standard. This is
true. 84% of developers now use AI
coding tools. All right, adoption is not
universal. It's funny to think back at
the beginning of last year. There were
still engineers saying things like LLMs
could never write code. They could never
do XYZ. Right? Again, this is before
Cloud Code, Codeex, Gemini, before all
of that. Right? The first reasoning
model had just dropped when I was making
this prediction. Okay? So, we got that
right. Agentic coding begins. I
predicted that our tools that were just
coding would start calling tools
reliably. Okay? And that's the crux of
that. If it gets one out of four, right,
it doesn't matter. That's not good
enough. But claude code was the primary
driver. Then we got cursor, agent mode,
codec, gemini, everyone followed. Right.
This was true. Nailed that. Right.
Evergreen AI coding experience. Again,
we have to give credit to cloud code. It
redefined agentic coding. Surprisingly,
it was in the terminal. Um, I was
expecting this to be a UI, but it was in
the CLI, and this worked out better than
anything. So we got a brand new AI
coding experience in a way. Number two
and number three are very interlin right
agent coding did begin and a new coding
experience to begin inside the terminal.
All right. Uh the cost of code declines.
Um not a huge bet to make but this has
remained true and we're seeing that with
the new Gemini 3 flash release. The cost
of code is barreling towards zero. To be
clear, the right configuration of code
in a product is still as valuable as it
was before. In fact, it's more valuable
because there's a lot more code out
there that is absolute trash and slump.
Skill gap earthquake 25% decrease in
entry-level roles. Senior AI
orchestrators salaries skyrocketed. I
got this one right. We see a massive
decline in entry-le roles. This is still
continuing throughout the entire year.
Uh this has been proven true. We get
points for that looking back. All right.
LLM model review. So, there is no wall.
Again, if you remember at the end of
last year, the end of 2024 when I was
making this bet, it was very unclear
whether uh models could push past where
they were. I bet super hard that they
could. Again, I'm going to link my
previous predictions video. It was a
very different world one year ago in
December, right? 2024 December was a
very different world. Everyone was
talking about the wall, right? I was
right. There is no wall. Benchmarks have
been destroyed. New benchmarks have been
introduced. And guess what's going to
happen? Those are going to get
destroyed. I didn't make this a bet for
this year because I think the writing's
on the wall. There is no wall.
Hyperspecialized LLMs got this one right
as well. We see LLMs, even the best
ones, start to specialize, right? Cloud
opus is for engineering. We got this new
function Gemma that was just released
specifically for tool calling on
devices, right? Code stroll. Uh we got
enterprise models. We got chemistrybased
models. This is going to continue. Um,
again, a lot of these bets become
pointless to continue to make because
it's just so clear now in the industry
that there's no alpha here anymore,
right? There's no alpha in betting in
this. All right, there's no advantage to
be had. Okay, year of infinite memory. I
got this one wrong. I got this one
wrong. I did not understand this problem
deeply enough. Context kind of grew. And
specifically by grow, I mean the
effective context window of a lot of
these models did improve, but memory is
still a huge challenge. I got this
wrong. All right, we saw GPT4 Ole small
language models on devices. This is true
03, Haiku, Quinn. There's a bunch of
models now that can run on a really
shitty device all the way down to mobile
devices. All right, so I got this one
right. These are probably not the right
models to list here, but um you can tell
I had an agent spin that description out
for me. I predicted uh OpenAI and
Antropic would release small language
models. Got this one right. We have
Haiku and we have uh 03 but also we got
the GPT OS models right even smaller 120
billion and 20 billion. All right,
OpenAI remains number one. I got this
prediction wrong. They are no longer in
the top place. Right now it's probably
between Opus 5 or Gemini 3 in terms of
the best all-around model for price um
intelligence and speed. Very clearly the
winner right now is Gemini 3 Flash as we
talked about in the beginning. Uh new
industry-breaking architecture. We now
have world models and this slowly is
moving outside of the realm of
engineering for us. We probably won't be
covering or talking about these a lot
unless there's some serious advantage
for us for modernday uh technology and
modern day software engineering. But
certainly we could be. I predicted this.
It came true. We we now have this new
world of world models. Exponential slop.
This came true. This prediction
describes itself. Uh, big tech shrinks,
smallmedium businesses grow. I think
this one's a little more of a mixed bag,
but ultimately this one's true. You
could really frame this as correct or
false if you wanted. I'm going to take
the credit here. We did concretely see
big tech cut jobs while small businesses
were able to thrive with smaller teams.
Uh, this one's a little weird. If you
want to dock me on this one, you can. I
totally understand that. Last last bet
here that I made last year. Data greater
than UX, greater than benchmarks.
Winners have proprietary data and better
UX and the raw model intelligence was
commoditized. I think this is right and
it will continue to be right. The most
important thing now is your user data
and the relationship you have with your
user and access to that data. Then it's
your user experience. And then lastly,
it's the language model benchmarks and
the language model themselves that use
to feel your your new agentic
experiences. All right. So, these are
all the actions I'm taking for 2026. I
believe this is going to be the year of
trust. Once again, this is where I'm
betting my time, money, and compute. Let
me know what you think in the comments.
Do you agree? Do you disagree? What am I
missing here? I'm betting super big on
these ideas. I have many of these ideas
already in motion. Again, as mentioned,
if you're interested, check out Tactical
Agentic Coding link in the description.
Many engineers who watch the channel are
already in there. You're already in
Agentic Horizon. you're already getting
the edge on 2026. That's going to be in
the description if you're interested.
The big idea here, if I had to pick one,
it's this custom agents above all when
it comes to signal, when it comes to
value, I think this is the one thing you
can bet big on and you'll see the
highest return on investment. After
that, right, once you're building out
custom agents, you want to start pushing
into multi- aent orchestration, agent
sandboxes, and this will naturally kind
of get you into this next state. You
want to have that mindset of models
don't matter anymore. There's no AGI,
there's no ASI, it's [music] just
agents. So, let's put my team of agents
together. Let's build the best custom
agents. Let's build a great lead
engineer that helps me communicate with
my agents. And let's ship. All right?
Let's get real work done. That's what
[music] this channel is and will always
be about. You know where to find me
every single Monday. Happy holidays.
Stay focused and keep building.